URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/configure-entitlements-and-quotas-for-subaccounts
Title: Configure Entitlements and Quotas for Subaccounts | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Managing Entitlements and Quotas Using the CockpitConfigure Entitlements and Quotas for Subaccounts
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Configure Entitlements and Quotas for Subaccounts

Distribute the entitlements that are available in your global account by adding service plans and their allowed quotas to your subaccounts using SAP BTP cockpit.

Prerequisites

You must be a global account administrator to configure subaccount assignments.

Note that if the subaccount is under a directory that is configured to manage users, then you must be either the directory administrator or a global account administrator to configure the subaccount's assignments.

The service and applications that you intend to assign to your subaccounts must be entitled with the required quota to your global account. If you're assigning a service plan to a subaccount, which is under a directory that is configured to manage entitlements, then the managed directory must have the relevant service plans and needed quota assigned to it so that you can distribute them to the directory's subaccounts, as required.

For enterprise accounts that use the subscription-based commercial model, your account receives only the services that you've already purchased and subscribed to according to your SAP BTP contract. To access additional services, at an extra cost, you can modify your contract via your sales representative or account executive.

For enterprise accounts that use the consumption-based commercial model, your global account receives all pay-for-use and free services that are eligible for this commercial model.

If you have a trial account, you'll receive a restricted set of free platform resources and services for a limited time period. To access additional services, you'll have to switch to an enterprise account.

To assign beta service plans, your subaccount must have the Enable beta features option selected. See Change Subaccount Details. Only applies to non-production subaccounts.

Context

You can distribute assignments and quotas across subaccounts within a global account from these places in the cockpit:

The Entitlements  Entity Assignments page at the global account level (visible only to global account administrators).

The Entitlements  Entity Assignments page at the directory level by first navigating into the directory from the Account Explorer. This applies only to subaccounts that reside in the path of a directory that is configured to manage entitlements.

The Entitlements page at the subaccount level (visible to all subaccount members, but editable only by global account administrators) by first navigating into the subaccount from the Account Explorer.

For more information, see Managing Entitlements and Quotas Using the Cockpit.

Tip

To get an overview of all the services and plans available in your global account, navigate to the Entitlements  Service Assignments page. There you can see the global usage of each service plan in the All Services view, as well as the detailed assignments of each service across subaccounts and directories in the Assignments by Service view.

The Service Assignments page is for viewing purposes only; you cannot make any assignment changes from it.

In the All Services view of this page, the Assigned To column shows you the total number of directories and subaccounts to which each service plan is assigned in your global account. You can click on the links in this column to quickly navigate to the selected service in the Assignments by Service view and display more details about these assignments.

You can turn on the Show commercial info toggle option in this page to displays additional table columns that can help you to gain a better understanding of the relationship between contractual service entitlements and the technical assets (services and plans) in your global account; in other words, how each entitled plan was added to your global account.

If you navigate to a subaccount from the Account Explorer, you view its assignments in its Overview page view.

Note

To subscribe to a multitenant application, you must first assign it to the specific subaccount using the same process explained below. If you remove a subaccount’s assignments to a multitenant application, any subscriptions to it from that subaccount stop working.

Before a subaccount admin can enable a quota-based environment, such as Kyma, the subaccount admin must first assign the environment's plan and quota to the subaccount. Other non-quota-based environments, such as Cloud Foundry, are available by default to all subaccounts, and therefore aren’t available as entitlements.

Configure Assignments and Quotas from Your Global Account
Procedure
Navigate to your global account.
Choose Entitlements  Entity Assignments from the left hand-side navigation.
Remember

There are other ways you can access the subaccount to manage its assignments, such as navigating to the subaccount or its managed directory from the Account Explorer. See above for more information.

Open the Manage Assignments view (tab).

Skip this step if you have a trial account.

Tip

You can use the View Commercial Information view in this page to display comprehensive commercial information about the entitlements in your global account (you cannot make assignments in this view). Note that this view is not available for trial accounts.

Select the  icon in the Directories / Subaccounts dropdown menu.
In the Select Subaccounts and Directories dialog box, select all the subaccounts that you want to manage assignments.
Choose Select to apply the filter.

You get a table for each of the subaccounts you selected, displaying the current assignments and quota.

Tip

Under the Service Technical Name column, click on the  (Service Details) icon of any service to access its service-related links to documentation, support information, and SAP Discovery Center.

Choose Edit to start editing assignments for a particular subaccount.
Note

You can only edit assignments for one subaccount at a time.

You can now edit the assignments table:
Action	Steps

Add new service plans to the subaccount

Choose Add Service Plans and from the dialog box, select the services and the service plans from each service that you would like to add to the subaccount. Choose Add <x> Service Plans in the dialog box to confirm.

Remember, the services that you see depend on the type of global account you have and your contract details (see the prerequisites above for more information).

Tip

If your global account is configured to consume remote services from a non-SAP cloud vendor (resource provider), an additional dropdown list is displayed in the Service Details pane, where you can choose a configured resource provider. You can then choose the required service plans that are available for the selected resource provider to add them to the subaccount.

For more information, see Managing Resource Providers.

Edit the quota for one or more assigned service plans

Use  (Plus) and  (Minus) in the Quota Assignment column to increase or decrease the quota for each service plan.

Note some service plans do not have a numeric quota assignment. In other words, you do not assign a specific quantity but grant access to the plan by simply assigning it to the subaccount. See Quotas in Managing Entitlements and Quotas Using the Cockpit.

Set a quota limit to unlimited service plans that use the consumption-based commercial model

The usage of most service plans is unlimited by default in global accounts that use the consumption-based commercial model. To control costs of such plans, you can set a quota limit on the service plans for this subaccount by first selecting the checkbox in the Set Quota Limit column.

Now, you can increase or decrease the quota for this service plan in the Quota Assignment column by using  (Plus) and  (Minus).

Delete a service plan and its quota from the subaccount

Choose  (Remove Service Plan) from the Actions column.

Once you're done, choose Save to save the changes and exit edit mode for that subaccount.
Optional: Repeat steps 7 to 9 to configure assignments for the other selected subaccounts.
Related Information
Entitlements and Quotas
Configure Assignments and Quotas from a Subaccount

If you're working in a subaccount and realize you’re missing assignments or quota, you can edit the assignments directly from that subaccount.

Prerequisites

In addition to being a global account administrator, you must also be a member of the subaccount to be able to access that subaccount.

Procedure
Navigate into the subaccount where you would like to configure the assignments.
Choose Entitlements from the left hand-side navigation to see the assignments for your subaccount.
Choose Edit.
You can now edit the assignments table as described in the procedure above.
Once you're satisfied with the changes, choose Save to save and exit edit mode.
Related Information
Entitlements and Quotas
Managing Entitlements and Quotas Using the Cockpit
Configure Entitlements and Quotas for Directories
Using Free Service Plans
Trial Accounts and Free Tier