URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/kyma-modules
Title: Kyma Modules | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Kyma EnvironmentKyma Modules
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Kyma Modules

With Kyma's modular approach, you can install just the modules you need, instead of a predefined set of components.

Pick the modules that best meet your business needs. You can add or delete modules on demand and configure them, thus determining the costs generated by the infrastructure that your modules use. To learn how, see Adding and Deleting a Kyma Module.

You can decide which modules are needed for your workload, although some features may still require the presence of other modules or related capabilities. For example, the API Gateway module depends on Istio capabilities, but it doesn't require the Istio module from Kyma. Instead, the API Gateway module needs Istio custom resources, such as Gateway and VirtualService, to be present in the cluster. If you want to use your own Istio installation, the API Gateway module will use it as soon as the required resources are available.

Tip

A release of a new module’s version is announced with a release note in What’s New for SAP Business Technology Platform for both, the fast and regular channels:

On the day of the release in the fast channel, a release note is published with the Preview label.

When the module version becomes available in the regular channel (after approximately two weeks), the Preview label is removed.

For details, see Kyma Module Releases.

To find out which module version is running in your cluster, go to Kyma dashboard.

Default Kyma Modules

When you create Kyma runtime in SAP BTP cockpit, it is provisioned with the default modules added. The default modules are not mandatory. If you don't need them, you can delete them in Kyma dashboard.

Default Kyma Modules

Module

Technical Name

Purpose

Documentation

Istio

istio

Istio is a service mesh with Kyma-specific configuration.

Istio Module

API Gateway

api-gateway

API Gateway provides functionalities that allow you to expose and secure APIs.

API Gateway Module

SAP BTP Operator

btp-operator

Within the SAP BTP Operator module, BTP Manager installs the SAP BTP service operator that allows you to consume SAP BTP services from your Kubernetes cluster using Kubernetes-native tools.

SAP BTP Operator Module
What's New for SAP BTP Operator
GitHub repository: BTP Manager
Optional Kyma Modules

When you create Kyma runtime in SAP BTP cockpit, the following modules are not added by default, but you can choose to add and delete them anytime in Kyma dashboard.

Optional Kyma Modules

Module

Technical Name

Purpose

Documentation

Application Connector

application-connector

Application Connector allows you to connect with external solutions. No matter if you want to integrate an on-premise or a cloud system, the integration process doesn't change, which allows you to avoid any configuration or network-related problems.

Application Connector Module
GitHub repository: Application Connector Manager

Cloud Manager

cloud-manager

Cloud Manager brings cloud provider products and resources into the Kyma cluster in a secure way.

Cloud Manager Module
GitHub repository: Cloud Manager

Eventing

eventing

Eventing provides functionality to publish and subscribe to CloudEvents.

At the moment, the SAP Event Mesh default plan and NATS are supported. If you choose NATS, add the NATS module.

Eventing Module
GitHub repository: Eventing

Keda

keda

The Keda module comes with Keda Manager, an extension to Kyma that allows you to install KEDA (Kubernetes Event-Driven Autoscaler).

Keda Module

NATS

nats

NATS deploys a NATS cluster within the Kyma cluster. You can use it as a backend for Kyma Eventing.

NATS Module
GitHub repository: NATS

Registry Cache

registry-cache

With the Registry Cache module, you can add a caching layer for container image registries, reducing outbound traffic to upstream registries and improving image pull performance.

Registry Cache Module
GitHub repository: Registry Cache

Serverless

serverless

With the Serverless module, you can define simple code snippets (Functions) with minimal implementation effort.

Serverless Module
Configuring Serverless
Deploy Workloads in the Kyma Environment to Extend SAP Systems
GitHub repository: Serverless

Telemetry

telemetry

The Telemetry module collects application logs and distributed traces for your application, and dispatches them to your preferred backends.

Telemetry Module
What's New for Telemetry
GitHub repository: Telemetry
Other SAP Modules

These modules are developed and maintained by SAP teams outside of Kyma. To get help or request a feature, contact the module provider directly.

Other SAP Modules

Module

Technical Name

Purpose

Documentation

Transparent Proxy

transparent-proxy

Use the transparent proxy for Kubernetes to connect workloads in a Kubernetes cluster to Internet and on-premise applications.

Transparent Proxy in the Kyma Environment

Connectivity Proxy

connectivity-proxy

Use the connectivity proxy for Kubernetes to connect workloads in a Kubernetes cluster to on-premise systems, exposed via the Cloud Connector

On-Premise Connectivity in the Kyma Environment

Community Modules

Community modules are modules provided by the Kyma community. Use them to enhance your Kyma experience with additional features and capabilities. You can install community modules alongside managed modules. Unlike managed modules, community modules aren’t automatically updated or maintained. For more information, see kyma-project.io: Community Modules.

Caution

Community modules aren't subject to the Service Level Agreement (SLA).

Related Information
Adding and Deleting a Kyma Module