URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/working-with-role-collections
Title: Working with Role Collections | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Security Administration: Managing Authentication and AuthorizationWorking with Role Collections
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Working with Role Collections

As an administrator, you group application roles in role collections. You then assign role collections to application users.

Application developers have defined application-specific role templates in the security descriptor file. The role templates contain the role definitions. You can assign the role to a role collection.

Tip

Application developers can even directly define role collections with default roles. For more information, see Create Role Collections with Predefined Roles.

Typically, these role collections provide authorizations for certain types of users, for example, sales representatives.

Once you have created a role collection, you can pick the roles that apply to the typical job of a sales representative. Since the roles are application-based, you must reference the application to see which roles come with the role template of this application. You are free to add roles from multiple applications to your role collection.

Finally, you assign the role collection directly to users or indirectly to attributes such as groups. For more information, see the related link.

Prerequisites

Your user has administration rights in this subaccount and or global account. For more information, see Security Administration: Managing Authentication and Authorization or Role Collections and Roles in Global Accounts, Directories, and Subaccounts.

The roles defined by your application developers in the application security descriptor are available in the SAP BTP cockpit. For more information, see Adding Authentication and Authorization.

The users are stored in identity providers that are connected to SAP BTP.

Default identity provider (SAP ID service). For more information, see Default Identity Provider.

Custom identity provider. For more information, see User Management in SAP Cloud Identity Services.

Note

SAP BTP provides default role collections. You can use the default role collections, but you can’t change or delete them. For this reason, the Delete icon of a default role collection is grayed out.

You can perform the following tasks:

Define a Role Collection

Add Roles to a Role Collection

Delete Roles from a Role Collection

Assigning Role Collections to Users or User Groups

Assign Users to Role Collections

Delete Users from Role Collections

Assign User Groups to Role Collections

Delete User Groups from Role Collections

Related Information
Security Administration: Managing Authentication and Authorization
Role Collections and Roles in Global Accounts, Directories, and Subaccounts
Limits for Technical Artifacts of the SAP Authorization and Trust Management Service