URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/keda-module
Title: Keda Module | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Kyma ModulesKeda Module
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Keda Module

Learn more about the Keda module. Use it to install and manage the KEDA autoscaler in your Kubernetes cluster.

What Is KEDA?

Kubernetes-based Event Driven Autoscaler (KEDA) is an autoscaler that allows you to easily scale your Kubernetes-based resources. You can scale your applications based on the data of your choice.

KEDA supports a great number of scalers that help you manage your deployments. For the complete list, see the KEDA Scalers documentation.

For more information about KEDA features, see the KEDA documentation.

Features

With the Keda module, you can have a custom event-driven autoscaling for Kubernetes workloads.

Architecture

User configures the Keda custom resource (CR). With the CR you can determine the way the Keda module runs.

Keda Manager watches the Keda CR.

Keda Manager manages the KEDA workloads.

To learn more about the KEDA architecture, see the KEDA architecture diagram.

Keda Manager

Keda Manager helps you to install and manage KEDA in your cluster. It manages the lifecycle of KEDA based on the dedicated Keda CR.

API/Custom Resource Definitions

For the Keda CR conditions, check Keda Custom Resource Conditions.

To learn more about the KEDA CR, see KEDA Custom Resources.

Authorization

To assign access permissions to the Keda module resources, use the following aggregated ClusterRoles:

kyma-keda-view

kyma-keda-edit

Resource Consumption

To learn more about the resources used by the Keda module, see Keda Module's Sizing.

Keda Module Demo Applications

To learn how to scale the Kubernetes workloads using the KEDA API based on a simple CPU consumption case, and how the Keda module can complement other Kyma components, see Demo Applications.