URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/preconfigured-credentials-and-access
Title: Preconfigured Credentials and Access | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…SAP BTP Operator ModulePreconfigured Credentials and Access
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Preconfigured Credentials and Access

When you create SAP BTP, Kyma runtime, all necessary resources for consuming SAP BTP services are created, and the basic cluster access is configured.

Credentials
When you create a Kyma instance in the SAP BTP cockpit, the following events happen in your subaccount:

An SAP Service Manager service instance with the service-operator-access plan is created.

An SAP Service Manager service binding with access credentials for the SAP BTP Operator is created.

The credentials from the service binding are passed on to the Kyma service instance in the creation process.

The sap-btp-manager Secret is created and managed in the kyma-system namespace.

By default, the SAP BTP Operator module is installed together with the following:

The sap-btp-manager Secret.

The sap-btp-service-operator Secret with the access credentials for the SAP BTP service operator. You can view the credentials in the kyma-system namespace.

The sap-btp-operator-config ConfigMap.

The sap-btp-manager Secret provides the following credentials:

clientid

clientsecret

cluster_id

sm_url

tokenurl

Note

If you modify or delete the sap-btp-manager Secret, it is modified back to its previous settings or regenerated within 24 hours.

To prevent your changes from being reverted, label the Secret with kyma-project.io/skip-reconciliation: "true". For more information, see Customizing the Default Credentials and Access.

When the SAP BTP Operator module is added to your cluster by default, the sap-btp-manager Secret populates the SAP BTP service operator's resources as shown in the following diagram:

The cluster ID represents and identifies a Kyma service instance created in a particular subaccount. In Kyma dashboard, you can view the cluster ID in the following resources:

The sap-btp-manager Secret.

The sap-btp-service-operator Secret.

The sap-btp-operator-config ConfigMap.

Cluster Access

By default, SAP BTP Operator has cluster-wide permissions. The following parameters manage cluster access:

Cluster Access Parameters

Parameter

Description

CLUSTER_ID

Generated when Kyma runtime is created.

MANAGEMENT_NAMESPACE

Indicates the namespace for the Secrets with credentials to communicate with the SAP Service Manager. By default, set to kyma-system.

RELEASE_NAMESPACE

Indicates the namespace for the sap-btp-service-operator and sap-btp-operator-clusterid Secrets. By default, set to kyma-system.

ALLOW_CLUSTER_ACCESS

You can use every namespace for your operations. The parameter is always set to true. If you change it to false, your setting is automatically reverted, and SAP BTP Operator cluster-wide permissions remain unchanged.

Default Credentials and Kyma Runtime Deletion

The preconfigured credentials described in the Credentials section may affect the deletion of your Kyma cluster.

If any non-deleted service instances in your Kyma cluster use the credentials from the SAP Service Manager resources created automatically, you can't delete the cluster. In this case, the existing service instances block the cluster's deletion. Before you attempt to delete the cluster from the SAP BTP cockpit, delete your service instances and bindings in Kyma dashboard. See Deleting Service Bindings and Service Instances.

However, if all existing service instances in your Kyma cluster use your custom SAP Service Manager credentials, the non-deleted service instances do not block the cluster's deletion. See Customizing the Default Credentials and Access.

If you have not deleted service instances and bindings connected to your expired free tier service, you can still find the service binding credentials in the SAP Service Manager instance details in the SAP BTP cockpit. Use them to delete the leftover service instances and bindings.

Related Information
Customizing the Default Credentials and Access