URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/managing-space-quota-plans
Title: Managing Space Quotas | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Org Administration Using the CockpitManaging Space Quotas
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Managing Space Quotas

Learn what a space quota is, what type of information you will find on the Space Quotas page in the SAP BTP cockpit, and what you can do with a space quota in the Cloud Foundry environment.

What Is a Space Quota?
A space quota defines the upper consumption limit for all resources in a space, such as:

Space memory

Route

Service instances

Memory per instance

Application instances

Note

Assigning a space quota to a space is optional. A space without an assigned space quota shares the consumption limits defined in the org quota with all the other spaces part of the org.

When working with space quotas, keep in mind the following additional specifics:

You can create unlimited space quotas in an organization (org), but you can assign only one space quota to a space at a time.

If a space quota is larger than the org quota, the org quota limit is applied.

Example: If you create a space quota with space memory of 2048MB but the org quota has a total memory of 1024MB, then the space is going to use the org quota instead.

Also, you can have only one space quota named "dev" in an org, but two orgs can have two separate space quotas with the same name "dev".

When creating a space quota, you can define whether a space quota allows you to use paid services within a space.

Prerequisites

To create, edit, or assign space quotas in an org, you must have the Org Manager role.

What Can You Find on the Space Quotas Page?
You can switch between the following views on this page:

Space Quotas

You find the following in this view:

A list of all space quotas you have created and whether they are assigned to a space.

Details about each space quota tile related to the space, such as:

Space Memory (MB): Total amount of memory

Routes: Total number of routes

Service Instances: Total number of service instances

Paid Services: Selected if you'd like to allow the provisioning of instances of paid service plans

App Instances: Total number of application instances

Memory per Instance (MB): Maximum amount of memory an application instance can have

Note

The value of -1 represents an unlimited amount.

The option to create a space quota.

For more information, see Create Space Quotas.

The option to edit a space quota.

For more information, see Edit Space Quotas.

The option to delete a space quota.

You can delete a space quota only if it's not assigned to a space.

Quota Assignments

You find the following in this view:

A list of all the available spaces in the subaccount you have access to and whether they have a space quota assigned to them or if they are using the org quota instead.

The option to  (Edit) a quota assignment.

For more information, see Assign Space Quotas to Spaces.

What Can You Do with a Space Quota?

Create Space Quotas

Assign Space Quotas to Spaces

Edit Space Quotas

Related Information
Managing Spaces
About Roles in the Cloud Foundry Environment