URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/register-system-of-type-sap-btp-application
Title: Register a System of Type SAP BTP Application | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformExtensions and IntegrationsAdding, Registering and Deregistering SystemsRegister a System of Type SAP BTP Application
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Register a System of Type SAP BTP Application

Prerequisites

You are a global account administrator, or you are a system landscape administrator of the global account where you want to add your SAP BTP Application system. See Working with Role Collections.

Context
Note

The content in this section is not relevant for China (Shanghai) and Government Cloud (US) regions.

You can connect an application you've developed and deployed in SAP BTP with a global account in SAP BTP. To do that, you add a system representing your application to the list in the System Landscape  Systems page. The system type you use is SAP BTP Application. You also have to provide the namespace which is unique for this system. A unique system ID is automatically assigned to any system of type SAP BTP Application. For systems of type SAP BTP Application, this completes the registration process and you have your system registered with SAP BTP. Even though the system of type SAP BTP Application is registered directly, no status is displayed.

When you have a systems of your application listed in the Systems page, you can include it in different formations depending on your needs.

Procedure
In the cockpit, navigate to your global account, and then choose System Landscape  Systems .
On the Systems page, choose Add System.
In the Add System wizard:
In the Type dropdown list, select SAP BTP Application.
Enter a name for the system you want to register.
Note

Use only printable ASCII characters.

In the System ID field, there is an automatically assigned ID which is unique for this system.
In the System Namespace, enter a unique technical identifier to avoid global ID and name conflicts. It covers vendor, system (application or service), authority namespaces and optionally further sub-context namespaces.
Choose Add.
Related Information
Declaring System APIs and Events as Dependencies for Business Scenarios