URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/btp-admin-guide/9c7092c7b7ae4d49bc8ae35fdd0e0b18.html
Title: Cloud Foundry Environment | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformBasic Platform ConceptsEnvironmentsCloud Foundry Environment
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Cloud Foundry Environment

The Cloud Foundry environment allows you to create polyglot cloud applications in Cloud Foundry. It contains the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry runtime service, which is based on the open-source application platform managed by the Cloud Foundry Foundation.

The Cloud Foundry environment enables you to develop new business applications and business services, supporting multiple runtimes, programming languages, libraries, and services. You can leverage a multitude of buildpacks, including community innovations and self-developed buildpacks. It also integrates with SAP HANA extended application services, advanced model.

For more information about Cloud Foundry, see the official Cloud Foundry documentation at https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/.

Supported and Unsupported Cloud Foundry Features

Find out which Cloud Foundry features the Cloud Foundry environment on SAP BTP supports and doesn't support.
SAP BTP-Specific Configurations

Learn about technical configurations for Cloud Foundry that are specific to SAP BTP.
Availability Zones in the Cloud Foundry Environment

The Cloud Foundry environment follows the recommendations of our partner IaaS providers by leveraging the availability zones (AZ) concept.
Additional Information About Cloud Foundry

Links to additional information about Cloud Foundry that is useful to know but not necessarily directly connected to the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry environment.
Service Plans and Metering for Cloud Foundry Runtime

This page explains the relationship between the service plans in the SAP Discovery Center and those in the SAP BTP cockpit, and provides information to help you understand how the service is billed.
Related Information
Getting Started in the Cloud Foundry Environment
Development in the Cloud Foundry Environment
Administration and Operations in the Cloud Foundry Environment