URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/account-administration-using-apis-of-sap-cloud-management-service
Title: Account Administration Using APIs of the SAP Cloud Management Service | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Account Administration Using APIsAccount Administration Using APIs of the SAP Cloud Management Ser…
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Account Administration Using APIs of the SAP Cloud Management Service

Provides information about using the APIs of the SAP Cloud Management service for SAP BTP (technical name: cis) to manage some of the administrative operations in your accounts.

The APIs of the core services for SAP BTP allow you to manage, build, and extend the core capabilities of SAP BTP. Each core service focuses on a different aspect of the platform, such as the management of accounts and product entitlements, and the registration and provisioning of subscriptions for multitenant applications and services.

The APIs of the SAP Cloud Management service are included in the core services for SAP BTP.

The following table provides an overview of the SAP Cloud Management service APIs:

API / Microservice

Description

Region Availability(1)

Accounts

Provides functions to manage the directories and subaccounts in your global accounts' structure in SAP BTP.

Central region(2)

Entitlements

Provides functions to manage product entitlements and assignments across your global account, directories, and subaccounts.

Central region(2)

Provisioning

Provides functions to manage the provisioning of your environment instances, multitenant application subscriptions, and services for subaccounts in their corresponding region.

All regions

Events

Provides functions to get information about events relating to administrative operations in your accounts.

All regions

(1) For more information about available regions, see Regions.

(2) Refers to the eu10 Europe (Frankfurt) region, unless your global account is located in the China (Shanghai) and Government Cloud (US) regions then use the landscape domain of your central region.

For detailed information about the APIs, including their specifications and endpoints, go to SAP Core Services for SAP BTP on SAP Business Accelerator Hub

Alternatively, go to https://events-service.<app domain>.<landscape domain>/swagger-index.html where you can try out the APIs.

Example

If your global account is running on the US East (VA) region, use this URL:

https://events-service.cfapps.us10.hana.ondemand.com/swagger-index.html

Remember

When using the Accounts and Entitlements APIs, make sure the endpoint you are using points to the landscape domain of the central region.

To call the core platform API methods, you must obtain an access token. See Getting an Access Token for SAP Cloud Management Service APIs.

For information about the APIs of the SAP Service Manager service, see Working with Service Management APIs.

For additional information about using the SAP Cloud Management service APIs with subaccounts in the Neo environment, see Working with Cloud Management Tools Feature Set B in the Neo Environment.

Related Information
Error Response Format
Asynchronous Jobs
Using the Events Service APIs
Rate Limiting
Monitoring Usage Information Using APIs of the SAP Usage Data Management Service
Using SAP SaaS Provisioning Service APIs to Manage Multitenant Applications
Using Platform APIs
Account Model
Environments
Entitlements and Quotas
Data Protection and Privacy