URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/manage-account-explorer-hierarchy
Title: Manage the Account Explorer Hierarchy | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Managing Directories Using the CockpitManage the Account Explorer Hierarchy
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Manage the Account Explorer Hierarchy

Create an account structure by creating a hierarchy of directories and subaccounts using the SAP BTP cockpit. Add, move, and delete subaccounts and directories in your structure.

Context
Here, you'll learn how to:

Add directories and subaccounts to a directory

Move directories and subaccounts in the account structure

Delete directories and subaccounts from the account structure

Export the account structure to Microsoft Excel format.

A subaccount moves with its assigned service plans and quota. The entitlements of the source and target directories are adjusted accordingly.

If any entitlement for a plan in the target directory is configured with the auto-assign option, it is then automatically applied to the moved subaccount. Automatic quota assignments are subject to available quota in the target directory.

You can create a hierarchical structure that is up to 7 levels deep. The highest level of a given path is always the global account and the lowest is a subaccount, which means that you can have up to 5 levels of directories between the global account and the lowest level subaccount.

Procedure
Add directories and subaccounts to a directory.

In the Create dropdown, choose Directory.

When creating the new directory, you choose its location in the account structure by selecting its parent directory or the global account directly in the creation dialog box.

You can also create a directory by selecting Create Directory from the  Actions menu button for the global account or a specific parent directory.

Move subaccounts in the account structure.

Click  Actions and select Edit. Then select a new parent.

Click  Actions and select Move. Then select a new parent.

Click  Move to move subaccounts by drag and dropping.

Delete directories and subaccounts from the account structure.

Click  Actions and select Delete.

To delete a subaccount, you can also navigate into the subaccount and click Delete Subaccount.

Export the account structure to Microsoft Excel format.

Click  Export.

The exported Microsoft Excel file contains a sheet (tab) called Account Structure, which lists all the subaccounts and directories in the account structure, and includes information about each entity. Each subaccount and directory displays its name, ID, description, path, creation/change dates, and the user that created it.

Subaccounts also display information about their environment, provider, region, used for production setting, and whether the beta feature option is enabled. Directories also display whether they are configured to manage users and entitlements.

Related Information
Directories
Create a Directory
Create a Subaccount
Delete a Subaccount