URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/fc2bf6a63c254b92afb3356e2df0f930.html
Title: Getting Support, Neo Environment | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP, Neo EnvironmentGetting Support, Neo Environment
SAP BTP, Neo EnvironmentEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Getting Support, Neo Environment

To get assistance, use the available support channels provided by SAP for Me.

Caution

SAP Business Technology Platform, Neo environment will sunset on December 31, 2028, subject to terms of customer or partner contracts.

For more information, see SAP Note 3351844 .

Tip

This documentation refers to SAP Business Technology Platform, Neo environment. If you are looking for documentation about other environments, see SAP Business Technology Platform .

Prerequisites

Before you report a case, ensure the following:

Check Platform Status

Visit SAP Trust Center. You can check:

availability by service on the Cloud Status tab page;

availability by region on the Data Center tab page.

Check Tools Versions

Make sure that you've the latest versions of the tools you're using (recommended), or at least the versions you're using are still supported. For more information, see SAP Development Tools.

Try Out Built-In Support Within SAP BTP Cockpit

When using SAP BTP cockpit as an S-user, try Built-In Support to get customer help within the cockpit. See Built-In Support.

Learn the Best Practices and Offerings

Familiarize with the guidelines how to engage with support. See Support from SAP Best Practices and Offerings.

Procedure

To report a case in SAP for Me, proceed as follows:

Open SAP for Me and log on.

Open the Services & Support dashboard.

(Optional) You can use the Knowledge Search tab for existing solutions in:

SAP Notes & KBAs

SAP Community

SAP Support Portal

Product Documentation

Use the Get Support application within SAP for Me to get assistance via the available support channels.

For more information about the specifics of each support channel and to learn how to report problems, see Get Support Application.

Creating a Support User

Sometimes you might need to create a support user to troubleshoot issues in your system. For more information about how and when to create a support user, see 3543065 - Best Practices for Creating Support Users in Your BTP System.

Related Information
Users and Authorizations for SAP One Support Launchpad
Getting Support for the Multi-Cloud Environment
Cloud Availability Center
Road Map for Neo Environment