URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/create-spaces
Title: Create Spaces | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Managing SpacesCreate Spaces
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Create Spaces

Create spaces in your Cloud Foundry organization using the SAP BTP cockpit. In a space, you can deploy and maintain applications, and connect them to services.

Prerequisites

You have a Cloud Foundry organization in your subaccount, and you have the Org Manager role in that organization.

See Create Orgs and About Roles in the Cloud Foundry Environment.

Context

There are two ways to create a space in the cockpit. The main one is to do it from the Spaces page in your subaccount. The second one is from the Overview page of your subaccount. You can choose either one of them.

Procedure

Create a Space from the Spaces Page

Create a Space from the Subaccount Overview Page

1. Navigate to the subaccount that contains the Cloud Foundry organization in which you'd like to create a space.
2. Navigate to the Cloud Foundry

Spaces page.
3. Choose Create Space from the top right hand-side corner of that page.
4. Enter a space name and choose the space roles you want to assign to yourself.
5. Then, choose Save.

1. Navigate to the subaccount that contains the Cloud Foundry organization in which you'd like to create a space.
2. On the subaccount Overview page, you have a Spaces table. Choose Create Space from the top right hand-side corner of that table.
3. Enter a space name and choose the space roles you want to assign to yourself.
4. Then, choose Save.
Next Steps

As an optional step, you can assign space quotas to spaces. If you don't assign a space quota, the space you've just created will use the consumption limits of the org quota.

For more information, see Assign Space Quotas to Spaces.

Related Information
Create Spaces Using the Cloud Foundry Command Line Interface