URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/80edbe70b8f3478d8a59c21a91a47aa6.html
Title: Platform Identity Provider for Tools | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP, Neo EnvironmentSecurity, Neo EnvironmentPlatform Identity Provider for Tools
SAP BTP, Neo EnvironmentEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Platform Identity Provider for Tools

Configure the platform identity provider to be used for authentication in service and platform tools (for example, Neo console client, Cloud Connector, SAP Git Service, and so on). The default user base is provided by SAP ID Service. You can switch to an Identity Authentication tenant if you want to use a custom user base.

Overview
Note

The platform identity provider for tools is not used for accessing the SAP BTP cockpit. For accessing the SAP BTP cockpit, you use the custom identity provider for platform users configured at global account level. For more information, see Establish Trust and Federation of Custom Identity Providers for Platform Users.

Caution

SAP Business Technology Platform, Neo environment will sunset on December 31, 2028, subject to terms of customer or partner contracts.

For more information, see SAP Note 3351844 .

Tip

This documentation refers to SAP Business Technology Platform, Neo environment. If you are looking for documentation about other environments, see SAP Business Technology Platform .

By default, the console client, and service and platform tools are configured to use SAP ID Service as the platform identity provider for tools (providing the user base for subaccount members). SAP ID Service, however, uses the SAP user base (providing, for example, your s- or p-user). If you want to have subaccount members from your custom user base, and use custom security configuration (such as two-factor user authentication, or corporate user store, for example), you can switch to a custom Identity Authentication tenant as a platform identity provider.

Note

There is a difference between a platform identity provider for tools and application identity provider at SAP BTP.

The diagram below describes the basic features of platform identity providers and application identity providers, and provides a brief comparison between them.

Note

Changing the platform identity provider for tools settings (Security  Trust  Platform Identity Provider for Tools in the SAP BTP cockpit) does not affect the application identity provider settings (Security  Trust  Application Identity Provider in the SAP BTP cockpit) for this subaccount. See Application Identity Provider.

The platform identity provider you configure will be used for accessing service and platform tools, such as:

Console Client for the Neo Environment

Git Service

Cloud Connector (Neo environment)

SAP Solutions Management Service for SAP BTP when BASIC (user name and password) authentication is used in applications

SAP HANA system from SAP HANA Studio (see Tutorial: Add an SAP HANA System)

Prerequisite: Configure Trust at Global Account Level
Context

To configure an Identity Authentication tenant as a platform identity provider for you Neo subaccount, you need to have a trust configuration at global account level with it. For more inormation, see Establish Trust and Federation of Custom Identity Providers for Platform Users.

Note

When you configure trust at global account level, the trusted Identity Authentication tenant creates an application with the name SAP Business Technology Platform. All security settings in this application apply to all Neo subaccounts.

Configure the Platform Identity Provider at Neo Subaccount Level
Procedure
In your web browser, open the SAP BTP cockpit, and navigate to your Neo subaccount.

See Navigate in the Cockpit.

Go to Security  Trust  Platform Identity Provider for Tools.

The screen shows the platform identity provider in use. By default, this is SAP ID Service.

Choose the Select Identity Authentication Tenant button.

A list of all tenants available for your current Neo subaccount appears.

Select the required tenant from the list.

The screen now shows the Identity Authentication tenant as the platform identity provider in use.

You can reset to SAP ID Service (using the respective button) or change to another tenant (if available).