URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/enabling-system-landscape-for-sap-integration-suite
Title: Setting Up System Landscape for SAP Integration Suite | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Formations for ExtensibilitySetting Up System Landscape for SAP Integration Suite
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Setting Up System Landscape for SAP Integration Suite

Use
Note

The content in this section is not relevant for China (Shanghai) and Government Cloud (US) regions.

A registered SAP S/4HANA Cloud system in the SAP BTP cockpit can expose consumption bundles that contain APIs and events. You can easily discover and consume the APIs exposed by the SAP S/4HANA Cloud systems in your system landscape when you develop and extend applications on SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry environment. To do this, first you need to enable connectivity between your system landscape in SAP BTP cockpit and SAP Integration Suite. The integration requires performing several configuration steps starting with configuration on a global account level, and then, configuration on a subaccount level.

Note

This documentation refers to SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition. See Introduction to the Universe of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.

Rules

When creating Integration with SAP Integration Suite formations, keep in mind the following rule:

At most one system of type SAP Integration Suite can be included in one Integration with SAP Integration Suite formation.

Prerequisites

You are a global account administrator, or you are a system landscape administrator. See Working with Role Collections.

You have a subscription to SAP Integration Suite. See Subscribing and Configuring Initial Access to SAP Integration Suite.
Note

Every time you create a subscription to a new SAP Integration Suite tenant, the system type for the tenant is automatically defined as SAP Integration Suite.

Procedure
The following procedure outlines the steps you need to perform to consume the APIs of registered SAP S/4HANA Cloud systems within SAP Integration Suite.

Add and then register an SAP system of type SAP S/4HANA Cloud in the System Landscape  Systems page of SAP BTP cockpit.

To expose information about its APIs and events and show this information on the Systems page, an SAP system of type SAP S/4HANA Cloud must be registered in the SAP BTP cockpit. Only when registered, the system communicates information about its APIs and other technical details across the landscape. See Register an SAP S/4HANA Cloud System in a Global Account in SAP BTP.

In the System Landscape  Formations page, create a formation of type Integration with SAP Integration Suite and include the SAP S/4HANA Cloud systems you want to expose to SAP Integration Suite. See Automating Integrations Using Formations.

Note

In the formation type Integration with SAP Integration Suite, you can include only SAP systems of type SAP S/4HANA Cloud.