URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/create-kyma-environment-instance
Title: Creating Kyma Instances | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformAdministration and OperationsAdministration and Operations in the Kyma EnvironmentCreating Kyma Instances
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Creating Kyma Instances

Set up a Kubernetes cluster with SAP BTP, Kyma runtime and use it to build applications and extensions to your SAP and third-party solutions. You can create one or multiple Kyma clusters in a single SAP BTP subaccount.

Prerequisites

Your subaccount has entitlements for Kyma runtime configured. See Configure Entitlements and Quotas for Subaccounts.

Context

To set up Kyma environment in your subaccount, you must create an instance of it. You can create it from your subaccount Overview section by choosing Enable Kyma and following the wizard steps to configure the provisioning parameters. You can also create a Kyma environment instance from Service Marketplace in the same way as any other SAP BTP service or application.

If you prefer to work in a terminal or want to automate operations using scripts, you can create Kyma environment with the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI). See Enable SAP BTP, Kyma Runtime Using the Command Line.

In the process of provisioning a Kyma cluster, an instance of SAP Service Manager is created (see Credentials). Therefore, each Kyma instance has an instance of Service Manager assigned to it. If you have multiple Kyma clusters in your subaccount, you can easily trace which Service Manager instance is assigned to which Kyma instance by the Service Manager instance's display name, which is the same as its matching Kyma instance's ID.
Note

If the creation of an SAP Service Manager instance is unsuccessful, Kyma provisioning cannot begin. If the situation persists, create a support ticket (see Getting Support).

Note

To indicate that your SAP BTP, Kyma runtime is used for production, select Used for production in your subaccount details. This setting allows Kyma runtime operators to prioritize incidents and support cases affecting production subaccounts over subaccounts used for non-production purposes. See Change Subaccount Details.

Procedure
In the SAP BTP cockpit, navigate to your subaccount Overview.
In the Kyma Environment section, choose Enable Kyma when creating your first Kyma instance. When provisioning the second and subsequent Kyma clusters, choose Create.
In the Basic Info view of the wizard window, perform the following actions:

Choose one of the plans assigned to your account.

You can keep the default instance and cluster names, but customizing them enables you to identify particular instances more easily.

Choose a region from the list.

To continue the configuration, choose Next.
In the Additional Parameters view, provide the required details in the Form. Alternatively, switch to the JSON tab and upload your configuration file or specify the parameters in JSON format.

For more information on the configurable parameters, see Provisioning and Updating Parameters in the Kyma Environment.

To review your configuration, choose Next.
To confirm changes, choose Create.
Wait until the instance is created. The instance creation may take several minutes. In the Kyma Environment section of your subaccount Overview, you can monitor the instance creation status and view the operation details.
Note

If the Kyma instances quota assigned to your subaccount has been used up, you get a message informing you about it. To increase the quota, go to Entitlements and make the necessary changes or contact your administrator.

Results

You have created a Kyma environment instance. If needed, you can repeat the procedure to create more Kyma instances.

Next Steps
In the Kyma Environment section of your subaccount Overview, you can see all the Kyma instances created in your subaccount. If there is more than one, choose an instance from the dropdown list to view the following details:

Kyma instance ID

Kyma instance name

Plan

Kyma dashboard link

Kubeconfig link

Cluster name

You can also view the details of your Kyma instances under Instances and Subscriptions.

To manage your Kyma instances, go to Instances and Subscriptions. Choose the action you want to perform from an instance's actions menu.

To manage access to Kyma environment and Kyma dashboard, assign roles as needed. See Assign Roles in the Kyma Environment.

To use a variety of functionalities, such as telemetry and eventing, or to use SAP BTP services, add the respective Kyma modules. See Kyma Modules.

Tip

To manage a Kyma instance automatically, you can create a Kyma service binding. The binding enables getting a Kyma kubeconfig, which in turn allows for accessing a Kyma cluster, deploying applications, running tests, and deleting the resources in a fully automated way. See Managing Kyma Runtime Using the Provisioning Service API.

Related Information
Available Plans in the Kyma Environment
Configuring a Custom Identity Provider for Kyma
Adding and Deleting a Kyma Module
Account Administration Using the SAP BTP Command Line Interface (btp CLI)