URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/deregistering-or-removing-sap-system
Title: Deregister or Removе a System | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformExtensions and IntegrationsAdding, Registering and Deregistering SystemsDeregister or Removе a System
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Deregister or Removе a System

When you no longer need the system to be paired with your global account, you can deregister or remove.

Prerequisites

You are a global account administrator, or you are a system landscape administrator of the global account where you want to deregister or remove your system. See Working with Role Collections.

You have manually added your system as a record to the list on the Systems page. See Adding, Registering and Deregistering Systems.

Context
Note

The content in this section is not relevant for China (Shanghai) and Government Cloud (US) regions.

Deregistering an SAP systems of type SAP SuccessFactors, SAP S/4HANA Cloud, SAP Marketing Cloud and SAP systems from the SAP Customer Experience portfolio means that the connectivity between this system and the global account is disabled and extension scenarios cannot be established, while removing a system means that this system is no longer part of the systems list. You can deregister or remove a system from the Actions column, or from the System Details page that you access when selecting the system from the system landscape list. You can remove only manually added systems.

The deregistration and the removal processes have the following states displayed in the cockpit:

Deregistering - a deregistration process has started. As a result, the connectivity between the SAP system of type SAP SuccessFactors, SAP S/4HANA Cloud, SAP Marketing Cloud or SAP systems from the SAP Customer Experience portfolio and SAP BTP is disabled and extension scenarios cannot be established. The system remains in the systems list and you can register it again later on.

Once a system of type SAP SuccessFactors, SAP S/4HANA Cloud, SAP Marketing Cloud and SAP systems from the SAP Customer Experience portfolio is registered, you can deregister it only after deleting its entitlement configurations and excluding it from the formations it takes part in.

Error while Deregistering - the deregistration has failed. Try to deregister the system again. If the problem persists, you have to report a case in one of the components mentioned below.

Removing - a system removal process has started in the SAP BTP cockpit. As a result, the SAP systems of type SAP SuccessFactors, SAP S/4HANA Cloud, SAP Marketing Cloud and SAP systems from the SAP Customer Experience portfolio is deregistered, and then, it is removed from the systems list completely. To register the system again, first, you must add it to the list anew, and then, initiate the registration procedure. This state also applies to other manually added SAP or third-party systems that you are removing.

Once a system is registered, you can only remove it if you first deregister it.

Error while Removing - the system removal has failed. Try to deregister the system again. If the problem persists, you have to report a case in one of the components mentioned below.

Note
If the deregistration, or removal errors persist, report a case in one of the following components depending on the system type:

SAP SuccessFactors - BC-NEO-EXT-SF

SAP S/4HANA Cloud - BC-NEO-EXT-S4C

All other system types - BC-CP-MP

Procedure
In the cockpit, navigate to your global account, and then choose System Landscape  Systems .
On the Systems page, select the SAP or third-party system you want to deregister or remove.

To deregister a system, choose  (Deregister system) from the Actions column, or choose Deregister System from the System Details page that you access when selecting the system from the system landscape list.

You can deregister only registered systems.
Note

If your system is of type SAP S/4HANA Cloud, SAP SuccessFactors, or part of the SAP Customer Experience portfolio and you deregister this system, you can register back the same system's tenant and not a different one.

To remove a system, choose  (Remove system) from the Actions column, or choose Remove System from the System Details page that you access when selecting the system from the system landscape list.

Before removing a system from the list, first you have to check all configurations that this system is part of, such as entitlements and formations. Then, you have to deregister it and after that you will be able to remove it from the Systems page. If you try to remove a system before deregistering it, a dialog will appear and will ask you to deregister the system first.

Note

You can only remove manually added systems. Depending on their discovery mode the systems that are added to the list either are Manually added (registered manually by following the procedure in the prerequisites), or Auto-discovered (added to the list automatically, based on information of the existing system landscape), or part of the Subaccount/<my-subaccount> (automatically added, based on the information of the SAP BTP subaccount).

You cannot remove Auto-discovered systems from the list.

Results

The system has been deregistered or removed as a record from the list on the Systems page in the SAP BTP cockpit.