URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/map-role-collections-to-user-groups
Title: Map Role Collections to User Groups | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Mapping Role CollectionsMap Role Collections to User Groups
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Map Role Collections to User Groups

You want to assign a role collection to a user group provided by an identity provider that has a custom trust configuration in SAP BTP. In this case, the assignment is a mapping of a user group to a role collection. Your identity provider provides the user groups using the attribute called Groups. Each value of the attribute is mapped to a role collection as described in this procedure.

Prerequisites

You've configured your custom identity provider and established trust with your subaccount.

Remember

The name of the trust configuration is different from SAP ID service. The name of a custom trust configuration to SAP Cloud Identity Services could be as follows:

https://<tenant_id>.accounts.ondemand.com

You've configured the identity provider so that it conveys the user's group memberships in the groups attribute.

For business users, see Map User Attributes from a Corporate Identity Provider for Business Users.

For platform users, see Map User Attributes from a Corporate Identity Provider for Platform Users.

You've created role collections.

Context

The identity provider provides the users, who can belong to user groups. It’s efficient to map user groups to role collections. The role collection as a reusable element contains the authorizations that are necessary for this user group. Mappings save time when you want to add a new user. Simply add the user to the respective user group or groups, and the user automatically gets all the authorizations that are included in the role collections.

Procedure
To map a user group to a role collection, see Assign User Groups to Role Collections.

You can also map role collections to attributes other than groups. For more information, see the related links.

Related Information
Trust and Federation with Identity Providers
Map Role Collections to User Attributes