URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/including-sap-systems-in-formation
Title: Automating Integrations Using Formations | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformExtensions and IntegrationsIntegrating SAP SolutionsAutomating Integrations Using Formations
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Automating Integrations Using Formations

You can use the automated integration that allows you to include various SAP systems into a formation and thus combine diverse SAP solutions into an extended business scenario.

Prerequisites

You are a global account administrator, or you are a system landscape administrator. See Working with Role Collections.

The SAP solution systems that you want to include to a formation must be listed in the Systems page. See Adding, Registering and Deregistering Systems.

Context
Note

The content in this section is not relevant for China (Shanghai) and Government Cloud (US) regions.

A formation is a logical grouping of SAP systems following a business scenario. Formations allow you to combine SAP solution systems to simplify the connectivity setup and to provide a unified view of all components required for the implementation of your integration or extension scenario. There are three formation types: formations for business scenarios, for integrating with a specific service in SAP BTP, and for extensibility.

When creating a formation in the SAP BTP cockpit, you include the systems of the different SAP solutions you want to extend. If your business case features more than one SAP solution system, you can use the corresponding button to include additional systems in the formation. You can start the dialog as many times and add systems to your formation as you want.

A formation can have the following status values:

Ready

The formation has been added as a record to the list and all registered systems are included successfully.

Draft

Not all the systems were included when creating the formation. Include all the missing systems and choose Finalize Formation.

Action Required

The formation has been created but you cannot use it productively yet.

Based on the formation type and the subaccount that you specified, it might require an SAP BTP Kyma environment instance or an SAP Business Application Studio subscription. Although the SAP BTP cockpit allows you to create such a formation, to enable and make use of it, you must also create the respective instance or subscription.

Synchronizing

Systems that are included in the formation are currently synchronizing in the background.

Error

An error occurred while some of the systems that are included in the formation were synchronizing in the background. In this case, report an incident in the BC-CP-MP component.

When you include systems in a formation, these systems are synchronized in the background. If an error occurs, you can resynchronize these systems to restart the synchronization process. To do that, choose Resynchronize for the particular formation. You will have this action available only for formations that are in status Error.

If you want to reconfigure the systems in a formation from scratch without excluding them, you have to choose Reset and Resynchronize. You will have this action available only for formations that have no status in SAP BTP cockpit and their formation type is Side-by-Side Extensibility with Kyma.

Note

When registering a system or creating a formation, the data you provide in the given input fields is not encrypted with your customer managed key. The data you enter is only encrypted at rest.

Procedure
Open the SAP BTP cockpit and navigate to your global account.
Choose System Landscape

Formations.
Choose Create Formation.

The Create Formation dialog opens. There, in a wizard, you can create a formation and include one or more SAP systems to it.

On the General Information step of the wizard, enter the following information:
Enter a unique formation name.

The formation name must be up to 128 symbols which can be lowercase or uppercase Latin letters, numbers, hyphens, spaces, or underscores only. The name must start and end with an alphanumeric character.

Specify a type for the formation.

The formation type defines the use case.

Depending on the type, a list of systems that can be included in this formation is loaded at the following step of the wizard.

Choose Next Step.
On the Include Systems step, select one or more systems that you want to include in the newly created formation, and then, choose Next Step.

The wizard prefilters the systems that were added to the Systems page and are valid for the formation type that you specified at the previous step.

On the Review step, double check your entries before you create the formation.

If you want to make any changes, either you can edit the corresponding section directly, or use the Previous button.

Choose Create.
Optionally, you can include additional systems to the newly created formation, by choosing Include System.

On the systems list that opens, select a system, and then, choose Include.

Results
Note

When you delete a formation, several activities are performed at one go. First, the systems are excluded from the formation. Then, the subaccount is unassigned. Finally, the formation is deleted from the Formations page completely.

To restore a deleted formation, first you must create it anew, and then, include all of its systems again, one by one.

Next Steps

Once the formation is ready, you might need to configure additionally some of the systems that are part of this formation. You get the configuration details from the formation and then you go to the respective system and add these details. Such a system is the SAP S/4HANA Cloud Private Edition. To get the configuration details, you have to:

In the Formations page, select the formation you are working with.

Choose the system that needs additional configuration to open its details. In this example, this is the SAP S/4HANA Cloud Private Edition system.

Go to the Configuration for System... Provided By section and in the Actions column, choose  (Syntax).

You get the configuration details in a visual or in a JSON format. Copy the details that you need.

Depending on the system type, use the details you've copied to configure the system.

Related Information
Automating Integrations with SAP Ariba Buying
Automating Integrations with SAP Start
Automating Integrations with Data Ingestion for Industry Cloud Solutions
Automating Integrations with SAP Ariba Central Invoice Management
Automating Integrations with SAP Subscription Billing
Automating Integrations with SAP Collaboration Manager
Automating Integrations with SAP Advanced Financial Closing
Enabling Joule
Enabling Events Exchange Between SAP Cloud Systems
Enabling Integration with SAP Master Data Integration
Setting Up System Landscape for Kyma
Setting Up System Landscape for SAP Build
Setting Up System Landscape for SAP Integration Suite
Setting Up System Landscape for SAP Business Application Studio