URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/tools
Title: Tools | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformBasic Platform ConceptsTools, Programming Models, Programming Languages, and APIsTools
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Tools

SAP BTP includes many tools to help you develop and manage applications, and connect them to your on-premise systems.

For more information, see Tools.

Tool

Description

Account Administration in the Cockpit

The SAP BTP cockpit is the web-based administration interface of SAP BTP and provides access to a number of functions for configuring and managing applications, services, and subaccounts. Use the cockpit to manage resources, services, security, monitor application metrics, and perform actions on cloud applications.

Used for account administration in SAP BTP.

SAP Business Application Studio

Designed and optimized for business application development in SAP ecosystems, SAP Business Application Studio enhances productivity by offering specialized tools for various scenarios, including SAP Fiori application development, SAP HANA native extensions, full-stack and mobile application development, and more.

Central to the development environment is Code-OSS, the open-source foundation of Visual Studio Code, ensuring a familiar experience for developers when creating SAP-centric applications. SAP Business Application Studio streamlines the building, testing, and deployment of applications with integrated features for source control and testing. Furthermore, its Full-Stack Application Productivity Toolkit offers intuitive visual tools covering the entire development process, guaranteeing seamless integration with various SAP services and solutions.

Used for:

SAP Fiori development for ABAP and non-ABAP

CAP full-stack application development

SAP Build

SAP Build enables everyone, no matter the skill level, to create and augment enterprise applications, process automations, and business sites with drag-and-drop simplicity.

Used for low-code, no-code development.

Command Line Interface for Cloud Foundry

The Cloud Foundry command line interface enables you to work with the Cloud Foundry runtime to deploy and manage your applications.

Used for managing subaccounts in the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry runtime.

SAP BTP Command Line Interface

The SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) is the command line tool for convenient account management, such as managing global accounts, directories, subaccounts, entitlements, environment instances, multitenant application subscriptions, and users and their authorizations.

Used for managing global accounts in SAP BTP.

Cloud Connector

The Cloud Connector serves as the link between on-demand applications in SAP BTP. This is the browser-based and existing on-premise systems. You can control the resources available for the cloud applications in those systems.

Used for connectivity between SAP BTP applications and on-premise systems.

Terraform provider for SAP BTP

The Terraform provider for SAP BTP enables you to automate the provisioning, management, and configuration of resources on SAP BTP.

kubectl

The Kubernetes command line tool to communicate with a Kubernetes cluster's control plane, using the Kubernetes API.

Used as a Kubernetes tool connected with the SAP BTP, Kyma runtime.

kubelogin

A kubectl plugin for Kubernetes OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication.

Used as a Kubernetes tool connected with the SAP BTP, Kyma runtime.

Helm

The package manager for Kubernetes, used for installing and managing Kubernetes applications in form of Helm charts.

Used as a Kubernetes tool connected with the SAP BTP, Kyma runtime.

Paketo (Pack)

Pack is a tool maintained by the Cloud Native Buildpacks project to support the use of buildpacks. Pack lets you build container images, which are collaboratively maintained making it easier to maintain and update.

Used as a Kubernetes tool connected with the SAP BTP, Kyma runtime.

Docker Desktop

Docker Desktop is an application that enables you to manage (build, push, pull, and run) container images on your desktop and a docker-compatible command line interface.

Used as a Kubernetes tool connected with the SAP BTP, Kyma runtime.

SAP Cloud SDK

SAP Cloud SDK provides a layer of abstractions for features of SAP BTP such as logging, multitenancy, and connectivity. It also includes project templates for different execution environments and implementations.

Used for programming in Java and JavaScript.

Eclipse Tool for the Cloud Foundry Runtime

The Eclipse plug-in for the Cloud Foundry runtime is a Java-based toolkit for Eclipse IDE that enables you to develop and deploy Java and Spring applications in the Cloud Foundry runtime from Eclipse or Spring Tool Suite, as well as perform operations such as logging, managing user roles, creating connectivity destinations, and so on.

Used for programming in Java in the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry runtime.

Service-Specific Tools

The services that run on SAP BTP can come with service-specific tools. For an overview of the services and their tools, see the SAP Discovery Center.