URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/11fbee6f83ad4a70819775f72b65773c.html
Title: Extensions, Neo Environment | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP, Neo EnvironmentExtensions, Neo Environment
SAP BTP, Neo EnvironmentEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Extensions, Neo Environment

The extension capabilities of SAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP) enables developers to implement loosely coupled extension applications securely, thus implementing additional workflows or modules on top of the existing SAP cloud solution they already have.

Caution

SAP Business Technology Platform, Neo environment will sunset on December 31, 2028, subject to terms of customer or partner contracts.

For more information, see SAP Note 3351844 .

Tip

This documentation refers to SAP Business Technology Platform, Neo environment. If you are looking for documentation about other environments, see SAP Business Technology Platform .

Introduction

All standard SAP solutions are offered with customizing capabilities. Additionally, customers often have their own requirements for innovative or industry-specific extensions and the extension capability of SAP BTP can help them build, deploy, and operate their new functionalities easily and securely.

Extension Application

SAP BTP, Neo environment offers ready-to-use development and runtime environment in the cloud. You can extend standard SAP solutions without disrupting their performance and core processes. When building extension applications, you can also benefit from the automation of the integration between the SAP BTP, Neo environment and the extended SAP solutions.

These are the specifics of an extension application:

The extension application needs to call APIs from the SAP solution.

The SAP solution (for example, SAP SuccessFactors) can notify the extension application using APIs exposed from the extension application.

The UI of the extension application can:

Be embedded in the UI of the SAP solution

Be separate from the SAP solution, for example embedded into a corporate or a consumer portal

Extension Subaccount

An extension subaccount is part of a customer or partner global account in SAP BTP which is configured to interact with a particular SAP solution through standardized destinations, usually with identity propagation turned on. This subaccount is paired with the extended SAP solution.

Provide Extension Applications

There are two deployment models for providing an extension application:

Provider-managed deployment model: an extension application is deployed in a separate subaccount in SAP BTP, and the customer's extension subaccount is subscribed for this application.

For example, an SAP partner can use this deployment model to offer his extension applications as a software-as-a-service (SaaS).

Consumer-managed deployment model: an extension application is deployed directly in the extension subaccount of the customer.

This deployment model can be used for extension applications built by the customer, or purchased from an SAP partner as a deployable solution.

Related Information
Extending SAP SuccessFactors in the Neo Environment
Extending SAP S/4HANA Cloud in the Neo Environment
Extending SAP Cloud for Customer in the Neo Environment
Extending SAP Ariba in the Neo Environment