URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/account-administration-using-sap-btp-command-line-interface-btp-cli
Title: Account Administration Using the SAP BTP Command Line Interface (btp CLI) | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformAdministration and OperationsAccount AdministrationAccount Administration Using the SAP BTP Command Line Interface (…
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Account Administration Using the SAP BTP Command Line Interface (btp CLI)

Use the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) for all account administration tasks, such as creating or updating subaccounts, authorization management, and working with service brokers and platforms. It is an alternative to the SAP BTP cockpit for users who like to work in a terminal or want to automate operations using scripts.

The btp CLI offers convenient features for interactive use as well as for scripting: For the interactive user, there's login via SSO, command autocompletion, as well as several interactive commands with prompts. But all commands can also be run with parameters, and the command output can be set to json format, so the btp CLI is perfect for scripting.

If you want to use the btp CLI for scripting, we recommend to use the --format json option or to persistently set the output format to json with btp set config --format json. See Change the Output Format to JSON and Change Configuration Settings.

Documentation
In this documentation, you learn how to download, install, update, and use the btp CLI. Additionally, see the following:

btp CLI Command Reference: The command reference contains descriptions of all commands with their parameters, as well as examples, tips, and links to further conceptual documentation.

Get Started with the SAP BTP Command Line Interface (btp CLI): This tutorial walks you through downloading and installing the btp CLI client, understanding the syntax, and running your first commands.

Setting Up a Global Account via the Command Line: This chapter lists the commands of the btp CLI and the cf CLI that you need to create a subaccount and enable Cloud Foundry.

What's New for SAP BTP Command Line Interface: Release notes for the btp CLI.

When working with the btp CLI in your terminal, you can access the help by executing btp help or by appending --help to a command.

How the btp CLI Works

You download the btp CLI client to your local desktop and access it through the shell of your operating system. The client then accesses all required platform services through its backend, the CLI server, where the command definitions are stored. The CLI server delegates authentication and authorization to the authorization server, and forwards trust to the platform services, which then take care of authorization at the execution of each command.

Related Information
btp CLI Command Reference