URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/principal-propagation-from-cloud-foundry-to-neo-environment
Title: Principal Propagation from the Multi-Cloud Foundation to the Neo Environment | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformSecurityPrincipal PropagationPrincipal Propagation from the Multi-Cloud Foundation to the Neo …
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Principal Propagation from the Multi-Cloud Foundation to the Neo Environment

Enable an application in your multi-environment subaccount (for the multi-cloud foundation) to access an OAuth-protected application in a subaccount in the Neo environment without user login (and user interaction) in the second application. For this scenario to work, the two subaccounts need to be in mutual trust, and in trust with the same identity provider. The first application will propagate its logged-in user to the second application using an OAuth2SAMLBearer destination.

The graphic below illustrates the overall setup of the scenario.

Prerequisites

You have a user account with Administrator role in both SAP BTP subaccounts. See Managing Member Authorizations in the Neo Environment.

You have a custom local service provider configuration (this means in cloud cockpit  Security  Trust  Local Service Provider

you have chosen Configuration Type  Custom) in your subaccount in the Neo environment. See Configure the Local Service Provider.

Both accounts have a trust configuration to the same identity provider. See:

Configure Trust to the SAML Identity Provider (for the Neo environment)

Establish Trust with Any SAML 2.0 Identity Provider in a Subaccount (for the multi-cloud foundation)

The application in the Neo environment is protected using OAuth 2.0. See OAuth 2.0 Service.

The application in the multi-environment subaccount is bound to an instance of the following services:

Destination Service. See Create and Bind a Destination Service Instance.

xsuaa

You have deployed both applications, each in the corresponding subaccount.

Note

All configuration steps described in this tutorial are done using the cloud cockpit.

Contents

Create Trust Between the Subaccounts

Create an OAuth Client

Create a Destination

Create Trust Between the Subaccounts

Exchange keys and certificates between the subaccounts, and configure trust between them. This will enable the subaccounts to communicate using HTTP destinations.

Procedure
In the cloud cockpit, log on with the Administrator user.
Save locally the identifying X509 certificate of the subaccount in the Cloud Foundry environment.
In SAP BTP cockpit, navigate to the subaccount in the Cloud Foundry environment.
Navigate to Connectivity  Destinations.
Choose Download Trust and save the X509 certificate identifying this subaccount.
In the subaccount in the Neo environment, create trust to the subaccount in the Cloud Foundry environment.
Navigate to the subaccount in the Neo environment.
Navigate to Security  Trust  Application Identity Provider.
Choose Add Trusted Identity Provider and configure the new trust configuration settings:

In the Name field, enter the following:

<your Cloud Foundry domain host>/<Cloud Foundry subaccount ID>

Tip

You can view the Cloud Foundry domain host in cockpit  <your global account>  <your subaccount>  <your space>  Routes.

Tip

You can view the subaccount ID in cockpit  <your global account>  <your subaccount>  Overview.

In the Signing Certificate field, enter the X509 certificate of the Cloud Foundry account.

Note

Make sure you remove the BEGIN CERTIFICATE and END CERTIFICATE parts.

Mark the Only for IDP-initiated SSO option.

Save the new trust configuration.

Create an OAuth Client

You need an OAuth client to get an access token for the OAuth-protected resources in the application in the Neo environment.

Context

For more information about working with OAuth clients, see Create an OAuth Client.

Procedure
In the cockpit, navigate to the subaccount in the Neo environment.
Navigate to Security  OAuth  Clients, and choose Register New Client.
Create an OAuth client with the following configuration settings:

Name - the OAuth client name. You will need to provide this name as value of the Token Service User property of the destination below.

Authorization Grant - choose the Authorization Code option.

Mark the Confidential option, and provide a secret (password).

Save the client.
Note

When creating the required OAuthSAMLBearer destination later, you will need the following information from the OAuth client:

ID

Secret

Create a Destination

Context
Connect the two subaccounts by describing the connection properties in a destination. For more information, see Modeling Destinations.
Procedure
Choose the subaccount in the Cloud Foundry environment, and navigate to Connectivity  Destinations.
Choose New Destination.
In the new destination, provide the following information:

Field

Description

Name

Technical name of the destination. It can be used later on to get an instance of that destination. It must be unique for the global account.

Description

Free-text description.

Type

HTTP

URL

The URL of the protected resource in the Neo environment.

Example: https://myneoapp.hana.ondemand.com/myprotectedresource/

Authentication

OAuth2SAMLBearerAssertion

Proxy Type

Internet

Audience

The value of the local service provider name in the subaccount in the Neo environment.

Copy the value from cockpit  <your Neo subaccount>  Security  Trust  Local Service Provider  Local Service Provider Name.

Client Key

The ID of the OAuth client for the application in the Neo environment.

Token Service URL

Copy the value of Token Endpoint from the following place: cockpit  <your Neo subaccount>  Security  OAuth  Branding.

Token Service User

The ID of the OAuth client for the application in the Neo environment.

Token Service Password

The secret from the OAuth client.

System User

Empty.

authnContextClassRef

urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:ac:classes:PreviousSession

nameIdFormat

urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:unspecified if the user ID will be propagated to the Neo application or nameIdFormat = urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress if the user email will be propagated to the Neo application.



Save the changes.