URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/commands-in-btp-cli
Title: Commands in the btp CLI | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Account Administration Using the SAP BTP Command Line Interface (…Commands in the btp CLI
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Commands in the btp CLI

Find a full reference of all btp CLI commands and their parameters here: btp CLI Command Reference.

Working with Global Accounts, Directories, and Subaccounts Using the btp CLI

Use the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) to manage operations with global accounts, directories, and subaccounts.
Setting Entitlements Using the btp CLI

Use the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) to set entitlements to define the functionality or permissions available for users of global accounts, directories, and subaccounts.
Working with Environments Using the btp CLI

Use the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) to manage runtime environment instances in a subaccount. For example, enable the Cloud Foundry environment by creating a Cloud Foundry org (environment instance).
Working with Multitenant Applications Using the btp CLI

Use the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) to manage the multitenant applications to which a subaccount is entitled to subscribe.
Working with External Resource Providers Using the btp CLI

Use the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) to get details, or to create or delete resource provider instances in a global account.
Managing Trust from SAP BTP to an SAP Cloud Identity Services Tenant

SAP BTP supports identity federation. Its concept is to reuse the user bases of identity providers. To use a custom identity provider, your global account or subaccount in SAP BTP must have a trust relationship to the identity provider you want to use.
Managing Users and Their Authorizations Using the btp CLI

User authorizations are managed by assigning role collections to users (for example, Subaccount Administrator). Use the SAP BTP command-line interface (btp CLI) to manage roles and role collections, and to assign role collections to users.
Managing Signing Keys for Access Tokens

Use the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) to manage signing keys for access tokens in the subaccount.
Managing Security Settings

Use the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) to display and update the security settings for the subaccount.
Managing API Credentials for Calling REST APIs of SAP Authorization and Trust Management Service

Use the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) to manage API credentials, which enable you to access the REST APIs of the SAP Authorization and Trust Management service.
Working with Resources of the SAP Service Manager Using the btp CLI

Use the SAP BTP command line interface to perform various operations related to your platforms, attached service brokers, service instances, and service bindings.
Working with Multi-Region Disaster Recovery Using the btp CLI

Use the SAP BTP command line interface (btp CLI) to manage Multi-Region Disaster Recovery setups, such as creating, viewing, or deleting subaccount pairs.