URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/what-is-consumption-based-commercial-model
Title: What Is the Consumption-Based Commercial Model? | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Commercial ModelsWhat Is the Consumption-Based Commercial Model?
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

What Is the Consumption-Based Commercial Model?
Note

The use of the consumption-based commercial model is subject to its availability in your country or region.

With the consumption-based model, your organization purchases an entitlement to all current and future SAP BTP services that are eligible for this model. Throughout the duration of your contract, you have complete flexibility to turn services on and off and to switch between services as your business requires.

The consumption-based commercial model is available in the following flavors: the SAP BTPEA (SAP BTP Enterprise Agreement), the CPEA (Cloud Platform Enterprise Agreement), and Pay-As-You-Go for SAP BTP. Each option is suited to different business situations and levels of financial commitment, as described in the table below. For additional information and clarifications, please contact your account executive.

SAP BTPEA

Your organization makes a prepaid investment in cloud credits for the contract duration with an annual commitment to consume SAP BTP services.

This model is suitable for customers that have well-established and planned use cases, and who want the flexibility of turning services on and off, and switching between services, without the commitment of being tied to a single service throughout the duration of the contract.

You receive a monthly balance statement that provides information about the usage consumption of each service and the corresponding costs. The total monthly cost is deducted from your cloud credits balance.

This model has a minimum investment entry, and volume-based discounts are available.

You are billed annually in advance. Any overages are billed in arrears at list price.

You can top up your cloud credits at any time to prevent overages.

You get access to new SAP BTP services that are added to the consumption-based service catalog.

CPEA

Note

Certain restrictions apply. See the Frequently Asked Questions section in https://www.sap.com/products/technology-platform/pricing.html.

Your organization makes a prepaid investment in cloud credits for the contract duration with an annual commitment to consume SAP BTP services.

This model is suitable for customers that have well-established and planned use cases, and who want the flexibility of turning services on and off, and switching between services, without the commitment of being tied to a single service throughout the duration of the contract.

You receive a monthly balance statement that provides information about the usage consumption of each service and the corresponding costs. The total monthly cost is deducted from your cloud credits balance.

This model has a minimum investment entry, and volume-based discounts are available.

You are billed annually in advance. Any overages are billed in arrears at list price.

You can top up your cloud credits at any time to prevent overages.

Pay-As-You-Go for SAP BTP

You have the same access to all the services that are available in SAP BTPEA, but with a highly flexible zero-commitment model – you pay nothing upfront and there is no minimum usage requirement or annual commitment.

You pay only for the SAP BTP services that you want, when you use them.

You are billed monthly in arrears.

Service charges are non-discountable.

This low-risk model is suitable for customers with use cases that are not well defined, and are interested in running a proof-of-concept in a productive environment. This model provides the flexibility of turning services on and off, and switching between services, as needed throughout the duration of the contract.

A seamless transition to the CPEA model is available, on the condition that you have no other CPEA-based global accounts.

If you want information about the Pay-As-You-Go for SAP BTP for cloud test, demo, and development commercial model , go to the SAP Partner Portal.

Note

In global accounts that use the consumption-based commercial model, a default runtime memory quota of 200 GB for the standard plan is automatically assigned to every subaccount. This quota represents a limit on how much runtime memory the applications in the subaccount can use at any given time. When you use the standard plan for SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry runtime in the consumption-based commercial model, you're billed based on the amount of runtime memory that has actually been consumed. For more information, see Service Plans and Metering for Cloud Foundry Runtime and Consumption Monitoring.

A global account administrator can change the default quota as described in (optional) Adjusting Runtime Memory Quota for Cloud Foundry Runtime (Consumption-Based).

Tip

You can monitor costs and service usage throughout the contract period. See Monitoring Usage and Consumption Costs in Your Global Account.

For information about eligible services and pricing, see https://www.sap.com/products/technology-platform/pricing.html, or access the SAP BTP service catalog via the SAP Discovery Center. The SAP BTP service catalog allows you to identify service availability per data center and to determine licensing model compatibility per available service plan.

As part of the free tier model for SAP BTP, some services offer free service plans that allow you to try out these services without any additional charge within your SAP BTPEA, CPEA, or Pay-As-You-Go for SAP BTP global account. For more information, see Using Free Service Plans.

To find frequently asked questions about the consumption-based commercial model, see the Frequently Asked Questions section in https://www.sap.com/products/technology-platform/pricing.html .

Note

Depending on your business needs, you can combine the consumption-based commercial model with the subscription-based commercial model in the same global account, or you can use both commercial models in the same global account. Contact your SAP account executive or sales representative for more information. Note however that you cannot mix more than one flavor of the consumption-based commercial model in the same global account.

Related Information
What Is the Subscription-Based Commercial Model?
Monitoring Usage and Consumption Costs in Your Global Account
View Subaccount Usage Analytics
Managing Global Accounts Using the Cockpit
Managing Directories Using the Cockpit
Managing Subaccounts Using the Cockpit
Managing Entitlements and Quotas Using the Cockpit