URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/btp-administration-and-operations
Title: Administration and Operations | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformAdministration and Operations
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Administration and Operations

Administration and operation tasks for SAP BTP include management and configuration of global accounts and subaccounts as well as the operation of applications.

This image is interactive. Hover over each area for a description. Click highlighted areas for more information.

Administration of Global Accounts, Directories, and Subaccounts

Some of the typical responsibilities of SAP BTP administrators include maintenance of global accounts, management of directories and subaccounts, and configuration of entitlements. To do this, you can use either the SAP BTP cockpit, the SAP BTP command line interface, or APIs.

Account Administration in the Cockpit

Account Administration Using the SAP BTP Command Line Interface (btp CLI)

Account Administration Using APIs

Administration and Operations in Different Environments

Environments constitute the actual platform-as-a-service offering of SAP BTP that allows for the development and administration of business applications. Each environment offers different approaches to manage administration and operations. For more information, see Environments.

Administration and Operations in the Cloud Foundry Environment

In the Cloud Foundry environment, you can manage orgs, spaces, and space quota plans using the SAP BTP cockpit or the SAP BTP command line interface.

Learn more about the different application operations that you can perform in the Cloud Foundry environment.

Org Administration Using the Cockpit

Org Administration Using the Cloud Foundry CLI

Application Operations in the Cloud Foundry Environment

Audit Logging in the Cloud Foundry Environment

Administration and Operations in the ABAP Environment

When using the ABAP environment, the account administration tasks are performed in the Cloud Foundry environment.

The application operations are specific to the ABAP environment. For more information, see SAP Fiori Apps in the ABAP Environment.

Administration and Operations in the Kyma Environment

The administrators of the Kyma environment take care of setting it up and make sure it's ready for developers to work with.

Assign Roles in the Kyma Environment

Creating Kyma Instances

Kyma Environment Backup

Related Information
Account Model