URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/what-is-subscription-based-commercial-model
Title: What Is the Subscription-Based Commercial Model? | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Commercial ModelsWhat Is the Subscription-Based Commercial Model?
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

What Is the Subscription-Based Commercial Model?

Your organization receives a fixed price and period (typically a 1 to 3-year period) for access to your subscribed SAP BTP services.

Under this commercial agreement:

You are entitled to use only the subscribed services.

To access additional services, at an extra cost, you can modify your contract via your sales representative or account executive.

You pay at a fixed cost, regardless of consumption of subscribed services.

You pay in advance when the contract period starts.

Your organization can renew the subscription at the end of the contract period.

For information about available services and pricing, see SAP Store.

You can also access the SAP BTP service catalog via the SAP Discovery Center to identify the availability of services by data center, and also to determine licensing model compatibility per service plan.

Note that some services can be subscribed based on a user metric or a resource metric. For example, a Portal service can be based on the number of site visits or user metrics. A resource-based metric is more common when dealing with a large number of users; for example, suppliers accessing a portal to interact with your organization. Since it isn't always possible to predict how many resources would be required upfront for a three-year period, you can increase your original order if resource usage exceeds your subscribed quota. Using SAP BTP cockpit, you can view resource consumption within your global account on a monthly basis.

In the subscription-based model, you also get access to bundles or packages that comprise several related services and apps. Most of the time, this works out to be more cost effective when compared to subscribing to individual SAP BTP services.

Can an existing global account under a consumption-based contract be transformed to the subscription-based model?

You can change your existing contract from the consumption-based commercial model to a subscription license. Keep in mind that not all services that are eligible for the consumption-based model are compatible with the subscription-based model. We recommend that you contact your SAP account executive or sales representative to discuss feasibility and terms of transforming your contract.

Note that you can use both consumption and subscription-based commercial models either in separate global accounts or in the same global acccount depending on your business needs. Contact your SAP account executive or sales representative for more information.

Related Information
What Is the Consumption-Based Commercial Model?
Monitoring Usage and Consumption Costs in Your Global Account
View Subaccount Usage Analytics
Managing Global Accounts Using the Cockpit
Managing Directories Using the Cockpit
Managing Subaccounts Using the Cockpit
Managing Entitlements and Quotas Using the Cockpit