URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-btp-security-recommendations-c8a9bb59fe624f0981efa0eff2497d7d/explanation-of-table-headings
Title: Explanation of Table Headings | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP Security RecommendationsExplanation of Table Headings
SAP BTP Security RecommendationsEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Explanation of Table Headings

Not all the table headings of our recommendations are immediately understandable so we provide an explanation.

Explanation of Table Headings

Component

Priority

Secure Operations Map

Title

Default Setting or Behavior

Recommendation

More Information

Last Update

Index

The name of the service or component to which the setting belongs.

Defines the criticality of the recommendation.

For an explanation of the priority levels, see the following Explanation of Priority table.

The Secure Operations Map is a reference model to structure the broad area of security for content, discussions, and as a basis for a 360° view on security.

For more information about the Secure Operations Map, see Security Overview as part of the SAP Security Optimization Services Portfolio.

A general heading to summarize what the setting is about.

Describes the usage of the security setting, including any context, or default setting behavior (if available).

Defines our recommendation for this configuration.

A link to documentation that explains how you can achieve the recommendation.

Date of the last significant change.

See also What's New.

A stable unique reference to identify the recommendation.


Explanation of Priority

Priority

Description

Critical

Exposes the system to significant risk or threatens system reliability.

Recommended

Improves the security of the landscape and significantly reduces the attack surface.

Advanced

Extends the recommendation to a higher standard. The recommendation either extends the security standards to higher level of protection or to additional areas, such as your organization-specific requirements.

Related Information
SAP BTP Security Recommendations