URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/trust-and-federation-with-identity-providers
Title: Trust and Federation with Identity Providers | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Security Administration: Managing Authentication and AuthorizationTrust and Federation with Identity Providers
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Trust and Federation with Identity Providers

When setting up accounts you need to assign users. While we provide you with your first users from the default identity provider to get you started, your organization has identity providers that you want to integrate.

SAP BTP supports identity federation, a concept of linking and reusing digital identities of a user base across loosely coupled systems. Identity federation frees applications on SAP BTP as well as the platform itself from the need to obtain and store the credentials of users and to authenticate them. Instead, the user base is reused from identity providers, which support the administration of digital user identities, authentication, and authorizations in a centralized and decoupled manner. To enable communication between SAP BTP and identity providers, you must cross-configure the communication endpoints of the involved systems, establishing a trust relationship between them.

Recommendation

We strongly recommend that you use a custom tenant of SAP Cloud Identity Services. Using SAP Cloud Identity Services eases integration with other SAP solutions. When setting up accounts you need to assign users. We provide you with your first users from the default identity provider. By using SAP Cloud Identity Services as a proxy to your corporate identity provider and hosting your users there, you gain a number of advantages:

Integrate the management of these users with your broader identity management strategy, hosted on your own identity providers. You control your own user lifecycle and single sign-on strategies throughout the entire landscape.

Enforce your own password and authentication policies, such as stronger passwords or multifactor authentication.

For platform users, the use of SAP Cloud Identity Services is mandatory. If you don't have a tenant yet, check Getting a Tenant.

To connect your corporate identity provider to SAP Cloud Identity Services, see Corporate Identity Providers and Configure Conditional Authentication for an Application in What Is Identity Authentication and SAP Cloud Identity Services

Identity Provider and the SAP Authorization and Trust Management Service in SAP BTP Architecture

SAP Cloud Identity Services is a multitenancy-enabled identity provider for all SAP cloud applications and optionally on-premise applications. The service provides capabilities for authentication, single sign-on, authorizations, identity lifecycle management, and on-premise integration as well as self-services like self-registration or password reset.

SAP has its own SAP Cloud Identity Services tenant, SAP ID service. SAP ID service is the default identity provider of SAP BTP and where you register to get initial access to SAP BTP. Trust to SAP ID service is preconfigured by default.

We recommend that you request your own SAP Cloud Identity Services tenant (see Getting a Tenant). To establish trust with your identity provider, proceed as follows.

For business users: Business Users

For platform users: Platform Users

Related Information
Map User Attributes from a Corporate Identity Provider for Business Users
Map User Attributes from a Corporate Identity Provider for Platform Users
Settings for Default SAML Federation Attributes of Identity Providers for Business Users