URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/btp-admin-guide/develop-build
Title: Develop and Build | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP Administrator's GuideDevelop and Build
SAP BTP Administrator's GuideEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Develop and Build

The whole process and details for developing an application are described in the SAP BTP Developer’s Guide.

Based on the experiences of successful business applications, that guide condenses best practices and technologies that can be safely recommended to you. These recommendations are structured following the design-led development phases:

Explore

Identify the business opportunity and set up the roles and responsibilities in your team.

Discover

Identifying Required Use Cases

Understand your end users, their working methods, and their needs in more depth.

Understanding Available Technology

Development Use Cases

Get to know the use case patterns that can be implemented on SAP BTP.

Business Application Services

Explore the comprehensive set of tools and services that allow you to keep the pace when developing your application and at the same time benefit from future innovations in SAP BTP.

Design

User Experience Design

Design the user experience of your application to provide good usability.

Technology Design

Use domain-driven design to create an application that is modularized and has shorter innovation cycles and a clearer focus.

Deliver

Set Up

Before you begin developing your applications, make sure your landscape setup is appropriate for managing their lifecycles.

Develop

Develop your application by following the recommendations outlined in this section about the two programming models, the numerous programming languages, the respective development tools and also about aspects such as multitenancy, security, extensibility and others.

Run and Scale

Get constant feedback from your users, optimize the application based on this feedback, and operate the application using the services and capabilities SAP BTP offers.

Programming Model Specifics

ABAP Cloud

ABAP Cloud reflects the modern way to develop ABAP. It allows you to build lifecycle-stable and cloud-ready business applications, services, and extensions.

SAP Cloud Application Programming Model (CAP)

The SAP Cloud Application Programming Model (CAP) is a framework of languages, libraries, and tools for building enterprise-grade services and applications. It supports Java (with Spring Boot), JavaScript, and TypeScript (with Node.js), which are some of the most widely adopted languages. CAP guides developers along a path of proven best practices and a great wealth of out-of-the-box solutions to recurring tasks.