URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/enabling-sap-start
Title: Automating Integrations with SAP Start | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Formations for Business ScenariosAutomating Integrations with SAP Start
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Automating Integrations with SAP Start

Use
Note

The content in this section is not relevant for China (Shanghai) and Government Cloud (US) regions.

SAP Build Work Zone, standard edition is a predefined central entry point for accessing SAP cloud business solutions that are integrated with it, such as SAP S/4HANA Cloud.

To set up SAP Build Work Zone, standard edition with SAP S/4HANA Cloud on SAP BTP you need to have all the necessary systems included in a formation of type Integration with SAP Start in the System Landscape  Systems page of the SAP BTP cockpit.

Note

This documentation refers to SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition. See Introduction to the Universe of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.

Rules

When creating Integration with SAP Start formations, keep in mind the following rules:

SAP Build Work Zone system can be included in at most one Integration with SAP Start formation.

At most one SAP Build Work Zone system can be included in an Integration with SAP Start formation.

Only SAP S/4HANA Cloud systems that are registered with All Communication Scenarios or Integration with SAP Start communication scenario group can be part of a Integration with SAP Start formation. See Register an SAP S/4HANA Cloud System in a Global Account in SAP BTP.

Prerequisites

You are a global account administrator, or you are a system landscape administrator. See Working with Role Collections.

You have an Identity Authentication tenant. See Indentity Authentication: Initial Setup.

(Optional: if you are using the Integration with SAP Start booster in the SAP BTP cockpit, this step will be automatically done by the booster.) Check that you have a system of type SAP Build Work Zone in the Systems page. This system is added through a subscription in SAP BTP cockpit associated with a given subaccount. The subscription has been discovered and added automatically through the subaccount.

Check that you have a system of type SAP S/4HANA Cloud in the Systems list in the Systems page. This system is auto-discovered because it is associated with your global account and has been discovered and added automatically to the list based on information of the existing system landscape.

Note

If you don't find your system of type SAP S/4HANA Cloud in the Systems list, add this system manually. See Register an SAP S/4HANA Cloud System in a Global Account in SAP BTP.

Register the SAP S/4HANA Cloud system in the Systems list in the System Landscape page.

When you register an SAP S/4HANA Cloud system, use the Integration with SAP Start communication scenario group when you get the registration token for the SAP S/4HANA Cloud system. This allows the automatic enablement of the communication scenario SAP_COM_0647 after the corresponding system is added to the formation of type Integration with SAP Start.

See Register an SAP S/4HANA Cloud System in a Global Account in SAP BTP.

Procedure

If you have SAP Build Work Zone set up in your subaccount in SAP BTP, follow these steps to configure the integration between SAP Build Work Zone and SAP S/4HANA Cloud using a formation of type Integration with SAP Start.

If you want to have the end-to-end setup automatically, including creating the formation, use the Integration with SAP Start booster in the SAP BTP cockpit to guide you through the steps to configure SAP Build Work Zone in your subaccount and integrate it with SAP S/4HANA Cloud.

In the SAP BTP cockpit, in the Systems page, find the systems of type SAP Build Work Zone and SAP S/4HANA Cloud that you want to include in a formation.

The SAP Build Work Zone system you are going to include in this formation must not be part of another formation.

In the System Landscape  Formations page, create a formation of type Integration with SAP Start and include the relevant systems in it.

Add any name that helps you identify your formation.

In the Formation Type dropdown menu, select Integration with SAP Start.

Select the SAP Build Work Zone and SAP S/4HANA Cloud systems that you want to include in the formation.

Review your selections and create the formation.

Next Steps

When the formation is created, you have SAP Build Work Zone set up with SAP S/4HANA Cloud on SAP BTP. Then, set up SAP Task Center. See Post-Setup Tasks.