URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/btp-admin-guide/setting-up-your-security-and-compliance-model
Title: Setting Up Your Security and Compliance Model | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP Administrator's GuideSet Up and PlanSetting Up Your Security and Compliance Model
SAP BTP Administrator's GuideEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Setting Up Your Security and Compliance Model

Applications on SAP BTP are exposed to the Internet and should therefore fulfill the highest possible security requirements to prevent unauthorized access.

Security Concepts

The level of security you implement varies depending on your use case and your company's general security requirements. However, there are a few best practices that we recommend, regardless of your implementation.
Setting Up Authentication

Your initial access to SAP BTP depends on the default identity provider. After consuming the initial starter scenarios and testing, switch to integrating your own identity and access management solution, where you have control over your own security policies.
Setting Up Identity Lifecycle

As people join, change roles, and eventually leave your organization, you care for the onboarding, maintenance, and offboarding of their users in your systems. If you're a small organization, you can use manual processes, otherwise you need to automate.
Setting Up Authorization

The methods for assigning authorizations on SAP BTP include manual assignment, federation, and provisioning. In practice, you use all these methods according to the situation.
Setting Up Access to Remote Systems

Use SAP Connectivity service to enable your SAP BTP applications to access remote services on the Internet or in your on-premise systems. For connecting to Internet services, we recommend that you use APIs with destinations, and for cloud-to-on-premise scenarios, we recommend that you use destinations and the Cloud Connector.
Complying with Data Protection and Privacy Requirements

All companies must respect data protection and privacy rights of individuals. Data protection and privacy most likely influences the architecture and functionalities of your application and should be considered as early as possible in the development process.