URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/getting-started-with-customer-account-in-abap-environment
Title: Getting Started with a Customer Account in the ABAP Environment | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformGetting StartedGetting Started in the ABAP EnvironmentGetting Started with a Customer Account in the ABAP Environment
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Getting Started with a Customer Account in the ABAP Environment

After you have purchased a customer account, learn how to get started in the ABAP environment.

Note

This documentation informs you about the first steps as an administrator in the ABAP environment. For more information about getting started as a developer, see Getting Started as a Developer in the ABAP Environment.

1. Logging on to SAP BTP

After you have purchased your customer account, you will receive an e-mail with a link to the home page of SAP BTP and the logon data as administrator for the global account.

Log on to SAP BTP.

You are now in the SAP BTP cockpit.

Navigate to your global account.

2. Automated Initial Setup Using a Booster (Optional)

This image is interactive. Hover over each area for a description. Click highlighted areas for more information.

To set up a development system quickly, you can use the booster Prepare an Account for ABAP Development. The interactive booster guides you through the process of setting up your subaccounts, configuring entitlements, assigning members, and so on. For more information, see Using a Booster to Automate the Setup of the ABAP Environment (Optional).

Using a booster is optional. If you don't use the booster, you must perform more steps manually.

3. Manual Setup

Even if you have used the booster, some manual setup steps are still required. In the following, steps that are performed by the booster are indicated.

a. Setting Up Your Account Model

This image is interactive. Hover over each area for a description. Click highlighted areas for more information.

(Not required if you have used the booster):

Create a subaccount for ABAP environment in your global account (see Creating a Cloud Foundry Subaccount for the ABAP Environment ).

This allows you to further break down your account model and structure it according to your business needs.

(Not required if you have used the booster):

Create organizations and spaces (see Creating a Cloud Foundry Organization and Space).

If you want to learn more about subaccounts, orgs, and spaces, and how they relate to each other, see Account Model.

b. Setting Up the ABAP System

This image is interactive. Hover over each area for a description. Click highlighted areas for more information.

(Not required if you have used the booster):

Before you can start using resources such as services or application runtimes, you must manage your entitlements and add quotas to your subaccount (see Increasing the Quota for the ABAP Environment ).

(Not required if you have used the booster):

Optionally, if your developers want to deploy their own apps in Cloud Foundry, increase the quota for the Cloud Foundry runtime (see Increasing the Quota for the Cloud Foundry Runtime (Optional)).

(Not required if you have used the booster):

Create your ABAP system (see Creating an ABAP System).

(Not required if you have used the booster):

Subscribe to the Web access for ABAP SaaS application to get direct browser access to your instances in the ABAP environment (see Subscribing to the Web Access for ABAP).

This also allows you to access the administration launchpad including your own SAP Fiori applications. You only have to subscribe once for each subaccount.

c. Creating Administrator and Developer Users

This image is interactive. Hover over each area for a description. Click highlighted areas for more information.

Optionally, you can create additional administrator users for the ABAP environment as follows:

(Not required if you have used the booster):

Add users as administrators of the Cloud Foundry organization that you created for the ABAP environment (see Adding a User as Org Manager for the Cloud Foundry Organization).

(Not required if you have used the booster):

Add the users as managers for the Cloud Foundry space that you created for the ABAP environment (see Adding a User as Space Manager for the Cloud Foundry Space ).

Log on to the administration launchpad (see Logging on to the Administration Launchpad of the ABAP Environment).

Create employee records for the new administrators (see Creating an Employee Record for a New Administrator).

Assign the administrator role for the ABAP environment to the new users (see Assigning the ABAP Environment Administrator Role to the New Administrator User).

For your developers, create business users and assign them to the developer business role as follows:

(Not required if you have used the booster):

Create new members for the space that you created for the ABAP environment and assign developer roles to the new members (see Creating New Space Members and Assigning Space Developer Roles to Them).

Create employee records for the new developer users (see Creating an Employee Record for a New Developer).

Assign the ABAP developer users to the ABAP developer role (see Assigning the ABAP Developer User to the ABAP Developer Role).

4. What's Next

After the initial setup of the ABAP environment, your developers can now develop applications using ABAP Development Tools. You can tell your developers to get started (see Getting Started as a Developer in the ABAP Environment).

As next steps, you can optionally set up additional tools for your developers or ensure the integration with other systems:

If your developers need a UI development tool, set up SAP Business Application Studio (see Setup of UI Development in SAP Business Application Studio (Optional)).

As a default identity service in the ABAP environment, you get SAP ID. You might want to set up a custom identity service (see Setup of a Custom Identity Service).

As an alternative to SAP Business Application Studio, you can also set up SAP Web IDE (see Setup of UI Development in SAP Web IDE (Optional)).

This image is interactive. Hover over each area for a description. Click highlighted areas for more information.

Related Information
Learning Journey
Discovery Center
SAP Community
SAP Road Map Explorer
Video Tutorials