URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/html5-application-repository
Title: HTML5 Application Repository | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Developing HTML5 Applications in the Cloud Foundry EnvironmentHTML5 Application Repository
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

HTML5 Application Repository

HTML5 application repository enables central storage of HTML5 applications' static content on the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry environment. This service can be consumed from the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry runtime, the SAP BTP, Kyma runtime, Kubernetes, or by creating a service instance on the subaccount level regardless of an environment.

HTML5 applications consist of static content such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and other files, that run on a browser. For more information, see Basic Template and openui5-basic-template-app.

HTML5 application repository allows application developers to manage the lifecycle of their HTML5 applications. In runtime, the repository enables the consuming application, typically the application router, to access HTML5 application static content in a secure and efficient manner. For more information, see Configure Application Router.

Features

Zero Down-Time Enablement

The HTML5 applications are decoupled from the consuming application router. This enables updating the static content of the HTML5 applications without restarting the application router.

Versioning and Authorization

Exploration of HTML5 application content by version.

Access control that is based on private or public authorization.

When the HTML5 application is public, the service enables sharing this content with consuming application routers from different spaces.

Availability and Performance

During runtime, the HTML5 application content is cached and optimized to provide high performance with minimal network load.

The service provides several instances for a runtime to serve a high load of application requests.

Environment
This service is available in the following environments:

Cloud Foundry environment

Kyma environment

Multitenancy Support

This service supports multitenancy. It can be used by tenant-aware applications.

Technical Constraints

The size of an application deployed to the repository is limited to 100 MB per service instance of the app-host service plan.

Since the applications stored in HTML5 application repository can be shared, it is advised not to add personal data to them.

You can perform up to 50 deployments per minute at design time per SAP BTP subaccount.

If you exceed this rate limit, the HTTP error code 429 is returned.

You can make up to 300 requests per second at runtime per SAP BTP subaccount.

If you exceed this rate limit, the HTTP error code 429 is returned.

See Also

If you want to learn more about services in the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry environment, see Using Services in the Cloud Foundry Environment.