URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/e6c7616abb5710148cfcf3e75d96d596.html
Title: Cloud Connector | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP BTP ConnectivitySAP BTP ConnectivityCloud Connector
SAP BTP ConnectivityEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Cloud Connector

Learn more about the Cloud Connector: features, scenarios and setup.

Note

This documentation refers to SAP BTP, multi-cloud foundation. If you are looking for information about the Neo environment, see Connectivity for the Neo Environment.

Content

In this Topic

Hover over the elements for a description. Click an element for more information.

In this Guide

Hover over the elements for a description. Click an element for more information.

Context

The Cloud Connector:

Serves as a link between SAP BTP applications and on-premises systems.

Combines an easy setup with a clear configuration of the systems that are exposed to the SAP BTP.

Lets you use existing on-premises assets without exposing the entire internal landscape.

Runs as on-premises agent in a secured network.

Acts as a reverse invoke proxy between the on-premises network and SAP BTP.

Provides fine-grained control over:

On-premises systems and resources that can be accessed by cloud applications.

Cloud applications using the Cloud Connector.

Lets you use the features that are required for business-critical enterprise scenarios.

Recovers broken connections automatically.

Provides audit logging of inbound traffic and configuration changes.

Can be run in a high-availability setup.

Back to Content

Advantages

Compared to the approach of opening ports in the firewall and using reverse proxies in the DMZ to establish access to on-premises systems, the Cloud Connector offers the following benefits:

You don't need to configure the on-premises firewall to allow external access from SAP BTP to internal systems. For allowed outbound connections, no modifications are required.

The Cloud Connector supports HTTP as well as additional protocols. For example, the RFC protocol supports native access to ABAP systems by invoking function modules.

You can use the Cloud Connector to connect on-premises databases or BI tools to SAP HANA databases in the cloud.

The Cloud Connector lets you propagate the identity of cloud users to on-premises systems in a secure way.

Easy installation and configuration, which means that the Cloud Connector comes with a low TCO and is tailored to fit your cloud scenarios.

SAP provides standard support for the Cloud Connector.

Back to Content

Basic Scenarios

Connecting Cloud Applications to On-Premises Systems

Connecting On-Premises Database Tools to SAP HANA Databases

Note

This section refers to the Cloud Connector installation in a standard on-premises network. Find setup options for other system environments in Extended Scenarios.

Connecting Cloud Applications to On-Premises Systems

Install the Cloud Connector: Installation

Set up the connection between Cloud Connector, backend system and your SAP BTP subaccount : Initial Configuration, Adding and Managing Subaccounts

Allow your cloud application to access a backend system on the intranet: Configure Access Control

Connect your cloud application to an on-premises system:

Consuming the Connectivity Service (Cloud Foundry environment)

Connectivity Proxy for Kubernetes (Kubernetes workloads / Kyma environment)

Back to Basic Scenarios

Back to Content

Connecting On-Premises Database Tools to SAP HANA Databases

Restriction

This scenario is only available for the Neo environment.

Install and configure the Cloud Connector: Installation, Initial Configuration, Adding and Managing Subaccounts

Access HANA databases on SAP BTP: Configure a Service Channel for an SAP HANA Database

Connect on-premises database or BI tools to a HANA database on SAP BTP: Connect DB Tools to SAP HANA via Service Channels

Note

You can use service channels also for other purposes:

Connect to a virtual machine on SAP BTP (Neo environment only).

Configure an RFC connection from your on-premises system to S/4HANA Cloud (Neo and multi-cloud environment).

Connect to a service in a Kubernetes cluster (multi-cloud environment only)

See also:

Using Service Channels (multi-cloud environment)

Using Service Channels (Neo environment)

Back to Basic Scenarios

Back to Content

Extended Scenarios

Besides the standard setup: SAP BTP - Cloud Connector - on-premises system/network, you can also use the Cloud Connector to connect SAP BTP applications to other cloud-based environments, as long as they are operated in a way that is comparable to an on-premises network from a functional perspective. This is particularly true for infrastructure (IaaS) hosting solutions.

Here's an overview of all environments in which you can or cannot set up the Cloud Connector:

Cloud Connector

Environment

Examples

Can be set up in:

Note

Within extended scenarios that allow a Cloud Connector setup, special procedures may apply for configuration. If so, they are mentioned in the corresponding configuration steps.

Customer on-premises network (see Basic Scenarios)

SAP ERP, SAP S/4HANA

SAP Hosting

SAP HANA Enterprise Cloud (HEC)

Third-party IaaS providers (hosting)

Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud

Cannot be set up in:

SAP SaaS solutions

SAP SuccessFactors, SAP Concur, SAP Ariba

SAP cloud-based enterprise solutions

SAP S/4HANA Cloud (public edition), SAP C/4HANA

Third-party PaaS providers

AWS, Azure, Google Cloud

Third-party SaaS providers

Back to Content

Basic Tasks

The following steps are required to connect the Cloud Connector to your SAP BTP subaccount:

Install the Cloud Connector: Installation

Perform the initial configuration for the Cloud Connector: Initial Configuration

Register the Cloud Connector for your SAP BTP subaccount: Adding and Managing Subaccounts

Back to Content

What's New?

Follow the SAP BTP Release Notes to stay informed about Cloud Connector and Connectivity updates.

Back to Content

Related Information
Installation
Configuration
Administration
Security
Upgrade
Update the Java VM
Uninstallation
Frequently Asked Questions
REST APIs