URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/btp-developers-guide/building-blocks
Title: Explore | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP Developer's GuideDeveloping with CAP in the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry and SAP BTP, Ky…Explore
SAP BTP Developer's GuideEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Explore

Developing a new application should always serve the purpose of your business, for example making a process more efficient and hence saving costs, making users more effective so they get better results, or supporting a business innovation which gives you a competitive advantage and allows you to make more money.

The explore phase is where the business opportunity is identified at a fairly high level. Typically key stakeholders are interviewed, or use case exploration workshops are conducted. The methods used differ, depending on whether you are looking to optimize existing processes or whether you are looking to innovate your business.

If you are looking to optimize existing processes, then you need to identify the business problem.

Identify the Business Problem

A business problem represents a gap between the desired and actual outcome of a task. It can be any hurdle, situation, or variation that prevents a business from achieving its objectives. A business problem may not have an immediately obvious resolution, and may be masked or hidden by perception and assumption. To define a true problem, you need to remove the factors that obscure the real reason behind the problem.

To solve a problem for an internal or an external customer when using a product, you need to ask questions that can help you understand the customer’s needs, expectations, pain points, and feedback. Some examples of such questions are:

What are the tasks that customers are trying to achieve with a product?

How do the customers use the product in their daily workflow?

What are the main challenges or frustrations that the customers face when using the product?

How can you improve the product to better serve the customers' needs?

How satisfied are the customers with the product and the customer service?

What are the benefits or value that the customers get from the product?

How do the customers measure the success or impact of the product on their goals?

Create a Governance Model

One of the first and most important steps of your journey to the cloud is to establish an appropriate organizational setup and corresponding governance model. A clear and well-thought-out organizational setup makes it easier for your employees to adopt agile processes. See Creating a Governance Model in the SAP BTP Administrator's Guide.

Security Considerations in the Explore Phase

Addressing security in the explore phase when you're shaping the project vision with stakeholders lays a strong foundation for building secure, resilient applications. This early focus helps protect sensitive data, ensures compliance with regulations, and aligns security with business objectives from day one.

At this stage, you're not writing code yet, but you're making critical decisions that influence the security posture of your application. It's the right time to ask key questions, identify potential risks, and plan how to consider security aspects throughout the development lifecycle.

For example, a customer support team designing a ticketing system might identify risks such as data breaches if sensitive incident details or personal information are not properly handled. By proactively addressing these concerns now, you can avoid costly rework later and ensure compliance with data protection laws like the GDPR or HIPAA.

The following table summarizes the security guidelines you need to be familiar with:

Early-Stage Security Guidelines for Application Development

Security Guideline

Description

Define a Secure Software Development and Operations Lifecycle (Secure SDOL) Framework

Establish a secure software development lifecycle (SDLC) framework, using standards like OWASP to guide all phases.

See The Secure Software Development and Operations Lifecycle (secure SDOL) at SAP.

Engage and Train

Engage stakeholders to clarify their security expectations and ensure that development teams are trained on secure development principles. See Internal Wiki Page: SDOL-001: Security Training and Role Assignment.

Identify High-Level Security Risks

Conduct a preliminary risk assessment to identify high-level security risks based on the application use case. (For example, compliance, reputation).

Assess Potential Threats

Use threat modeling to identify potential threats relevant to your industry or app type, like SQL injection or insecure authentication.

See OWASP Threat Modeling Project.

Plan for Compliance

Determine regulations (for example, GDPR, HIPAA) that apply to your application data handling and storage needs.

Starting your application project with these steps helps ensure that security is considered from the beginning, making it easier to build a safe and compliant application.