URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/resilience-high-availability-and-disaster-recovery
Title: Resilience, High Availability, and Disaster Recovery | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformBasic Platform ConceptsRegionsResilience, High Availability, and Disaster Recovery
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Resilience, High Availability, and Disaster Recovery

SAP has a number of processes in place to support resilience in SAP BTP, and provides different offerings so that you can support the high availability of your applications.

How SAP Provides Resilience

SAP applies resilience principles when developing, updating, and deploying our SAP BTP applications and services.

SAP BTP provides resilience through the following:

Processes and Offerings

Description

Availability Zones

To achieve better fault-tolerance, we deploy our services across multiple availability zones (AZs), which improves the availability of a service if there are issues with the infrastructure of one AZ. Both Kyma and Cloud Foundry utilize multiple AZs provided by the cloud providers to ensure high availability of the platform.

For more information on AZs, see:

Cloud Foundry runtime: Availability Zones in the Cloud Foundry Environment.

Kyma runtime: Availability Zones in the Kyma Environment.

In addition to what SAP BTP offers, you can follow the Best Practices for Resilient Applications to ensure high availability of your applications.

Backups

SAP provides platform-level backups for some foundation services. However, for most of the services, managing backups is the customers' responsibility.

For more information on backups, see SAP BTP Service Configuration Backups Managed by Customers and Data Backups Managed by SAP.

Disaster Recovery

The SAP BTP Disaster Recovery (DR) Plan is part of the overall SAP BTP Business Continuity Plan, which includes crisis management and process continuity activities that are triggered by a declared disaster. For more information, see Disaster Recovery as Part of the Business Continuity Plan.

In-Metro Disaster Recovery

In-Metro DR is a disaster recovery solution that utilizes synchronous data replication. It has been designed to protect our customers from the impact of local disasters that may affect a single availability zone (AZ). By deploying services across multiple AZs within a single region, In-Metro DR ensures that if a disaster occurs in one AZ, the issue is contained within that zone. Meanwhile, the other unaffected AZs continue to function normally, efficiently handling incoming requests. For more information, see Disaster Recovery as Part of the Business Continuity Plan.

Best Practices for Resilient Applications

In addition to the services offered by SAP BTP, you can follow our best practices for developing and deploying applications, which allow you to make your application running on SAP BTP stable and highly available.

Develop Resilient Applications

When developing your applications, apply the principles and patterns of resilient software design that fit your use case. For more information, see Developing Resilient Apps on SAP BTP. For information specifically about developing applications in the Kyma runtime, see Develop Resilient Applications in the Kyma Runtime. For situations where the load is highly available and where applications need to react by scaling, consider using Application Autoscaler. For more information, see What Is Application Autoscaler?

Working with Availability Zones

To benefit from the high availability mechanisms in Cloud Foundry, set up your applications with multiple instances. For more information, see Developing Resilient Applications.

Disaster Recovery as Part of the Business Continuity Plan

The cloud platform disaster recovery (DR) plan is part of the overall cloud platform business continuity plan, which includes crisis management and process continuity activities that are triggered by a declared disaster.

Standard Disaster Recovery

SAP can restore productive tenants from backups as soon as practicable in case of a disaster resulting in the loss of the primary production data center.

As the magnitude of a disaster is unpredictable, a region might not be restored in a reasonable time. In addition, a new infrastructure might need to be set up at a different location, which might require the purchase and setup of new hardware. Therefore, we can't guarantee any fixed recovery timelines.

In-Metro Disaster Recovery

In-Metro DR is a disaster recovery solution that utilizes synchronous data replication. It has been designed to protect our customers from the impact of local disasters that may affect a single availability zone (AZ). By deploying services across multiple AZs within a single region, In-Metro DR ensures that if a disaster occurs in one AZ, the issue is contained within that zone. Meanwhile, the other unaffected AZs continue to function normally, efficiently handling incoming requests.

In-Metro DR is offered to customers of SAP BTP cloud services as contractual obligations and includes:

Recovery Point Objective (RPO): No more than 5 minutes of data loss.

Recovery Time Objective (RTO): Full-service restoration within 2 hours.

In-Metro DR solution leverages an active/active HA set up across 2 or more availability zones with a failover for all customers from primary to secondary site. That is, availability zones within a single region

Fully functioning availability zones are paired with every primary availability zone, application stack is pre-built with same capacity and compute as the primary availability zone.

A written, customer facing DR plan exist and is updated at least once every 12 months.

A DR test is performed at least once every 12 months, and the DR documents are revised as needed based on the results.

The In-Metro DR solution passes annual audits and receives certifications (for example, SOC2).

Scope:

For the scope of SAP BTP services, see SAP BTP Disaster Recovery Overview.

Includes SAP BTP regions on AWS and Azure

For more information, see Announcing the New "In-Metro" Disaster Recovery Solution for SAP BTP.