URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/protecting-your-application
Title: Protecting Your Application | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Adding Authentication and AuthorizationProtecting Your Application
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Protecting Your Application

Developers create authorization information for business users in their environment; this information is deployed in an application and made available to administrators who complete the authorization setup and assign the authorizations to business users.

Lifecycle of Security Artifacts for Developers and Administrators

Developers store authorization information as design-time role templates in the application security descriptor file (xs-security.json). Using the xsuaa service broker, they deploy the security information to the xsuaa service. The administrators view the authorization information in role templates, which they use as part of the run-time configuration. They use the role templates to build roles, which are aggregated in role collections. The role collections are then assigned, in turn, to business users.

The tasks required to set up authorization artifacts are performed by two distinct user roles: the application developer and the administrator of the Cloud Foundry environment. After the deployment of the authorization artifacts as role templates, the administrator of the application uses the role templates provided by the developers for building role collections and assigning them to business users.

Note

To test authorization artifacts after deployment, developers can use the role templates to build role collections and assign authorization to business users in an authorization tool based on a REST API.

Setting Up Authorization Artifacts (Developers)

Step

Task

User Role

Tool

1

Specify the application security descriptor file containing the functional authorization scopes for your application.

Application developer

Text editor

(If applicable) If you want to create an OAuth 2.0 client in an application-related subaccount, you must use a separate security descriptor file where you specify the subaccount.

Application developer

CF command line interface

2

Create role templates for the application using the application security descriptor file.

Application developer

Text editor

3

Create a service instance from the xsuaa service using the service broker

Application developer

CF command line interface

4

Bind the service instance to the application by including it into the manifest file

Application developer

Text editor

5

Deploy the application

Application developer

CF command line interface or SAP BTP cockpit

Note

For more information about the different steps in setting up authorization artifacts as an application developer, refer to the associated procedures in this section.

Add Authentication and Functional Authorization Checks to Your Application

Propagate User Information Between Applications or Services

Set Up Your Application for Multitenancy

Setting Up Instance-Based Authorizations

Setting Up Authorization Artifacts (Account Administrators)

Task

Links

Assign the role collection to the users provided by an identity provider

Working with Role Collections

(If you do use a custom identity provider) Assign the role collections to user groups

Map Role Collections to User Groups

Assign the role collections to users and user groups, manage attribute mappings

Mapping Role Collections

Create a role collection and assign roles to it

Define a Role Collection

Use an existing role or create a new one using role templates

Add Roles to Role Collections on the Application Level

Related Information
Application Security Descriptor Configuration Syntax