URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/enable-usage-of-custom-code-migration-app
Title: Enable Usage of the Analyze Custom Code App | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Custom Code AnalysisEnable Usage of the Analyze Custom Code App
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Enable Usage of the Analyze Custom Code App

Prerequisites

Your company has a global account for SAP Business Technology Platform.

You need permission to access the Cloud Connector.

Procedure
Maintain Business Role
To enable business users to access the Analyze Custom Code aka Custom Code Migration app, create the Quality Manager – Software Development business role and assign one or more business user(s) to it. If you only intend to use the Custom Code Migration app, you can also use the Project Manager – IT business role. To create these roles, proceed as follow (taking Project Manager – IT as an example):

From the SAP Fiori launchpad of your ABAP environment, open the Maintain Business Role tile.

Create the Project Manager – IT business role using the SAP_BR_IT_PROJECT_MANAGER template.

For more information see, How to Create a Business Role from a Template.

Maintain the restrictions of the business role.

Note

To enable write access for this business role, ensure that it is set to Unrestricted.

Open the new business role and add the Assigned Business Users.

Save the changes.

Maintain Communication Arrangement

To enable communication from your ABAP environment to your on-premise systems using Remote Function Calls (RFC), you need to create the communication arrangement SAP Custom Code Migration Integration (SAP_COM_0464) in your ABAP environment.

To set up the connection from the ABAP system in the ABAP environment to your on-premise system, proceed as follows:

Log on to the SAP Fiori launchpad of your ABAP environment.

In the Communication Management section, select the Communication Arrangement tile.

Create a new communication arrangement using the SAP_COM_0464 scenario.

If not yet available or defined, create a communication system for the communication arrangement to define an endpoint for your checked system.

For the Communication System, choose New.

In the New Communication System dialog, enter the System ID and System Name of the checked system.

Choose Create.

In the Technical Data tab under General, enter the virtual host as specified in your Cloud Connector as Host Name. The field Port has already been filled in automatically with the default 443. The value of the field UI Host can be changed if it differs from that of the host.

Switch on the slider for Cloud Connector.

Filling in the field SCC Location ID is optional.

Under RFC Settings, fill in the fields Client, Instance Number and Target Host as specified as virtual host in your Cloud Connector.

Under User for Outbound Communication, choose + to assign the RFC user you created in the checked system to the communication system. See Configuring Remote ATC Using a Central Check System to learn how to create such an RFC user.

Choose Create and then Save to save the communication system and to be navigated back to the Communication Arrangement creation page.

Confirm with Save.

Under Additional Properties, fill out the fields Object Provider and System Group. An object provider defines the RFC connection to be used for analysis in a remote SAP system and must be assigned to a system group. This is the name you then select as your Object Provider to Remote System for your custom code migration project in the Analyze Custom Code app. Enter a name for each field. This name can be defined by you and can be 20 characters long (25 for system groups). The object provider will be created on the spot. The system group will either be created right then as well or, if it already exists, the object provider will be grouped within the system group that already groups together other systems and object providers in the SAP BTP system.

Note

A system group subsumes multiple SAP systems (typically, the productive system, the test system(s), and the development system(s)), which all represent a part of a system landscape of one and the same SAP release. If you're using an existing system group, your new object provider will be grouped with the existing object providers in this system group.

Under Outbound Services  Retrieve Custom Code, ensure that the Service Status is set to Active. Optionally, you can test the connection from the SAP BTP ABAP environment system to the checked system by choosing the Check Connection button.

Under Outbound Services  Display Custom Code, ensure that the Service Status for displaying custom code via UI link is set to Active. You may also need to enter a value for Port if the system number is not 00.

Choose Save to save the communication arrangement. A message should now pop up at the bottom of the screen informing you that the activation was successful.

You can now select the communication arrangement in the Object Provider to Remote System field in the Analyze Custom Code app to establish the connection to your on-premise system.

On-Premise System: Install Remote Stubs

To analyze your custom code in your on-premise system using the Custom Code Migration app, see SAP Note 2599695  Custom Code Migration Fiori App: Remote Stubs for the Checked System.

Related Information
SAP Note 2436688 
Custom Code Migration Guide for SAP S/4HANA
How to check your custom ABAP code for SAP BTP ABAP environment