URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/kyma-environment
Title: Kyma Environment | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformBasic Platform ConceptsEnvironmentsKyma Environment
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Kyma Environment

SAP BTP, Kyma runtime provides a fully managed cloud-native Kubernetes application runtime based on the open-source project "Kyma". Based on modular building blocks, Kyma runtime includes all the necessary capabilities to simplify the development and to run enterprise-grade cloud-native applications.

Kyma as a Managed Service

Kyma environment permits a native consumption of the Multi-Cloud Foundation Services (What Is the Multi-Cloud Foundation?) and smooth consumption of SAP and non-SAP applications. It also supports out-of-the-box CAP, SAP Cloud SDK, application router, and HTML5 deployer.

Kyma implements a dedicated application runtime to deploy highly scalable, robust, and secure containerized microservices.

Note

Kyma as a managed service automatically checks all Kyma-managed resources. Any unexpected modifications are discarded, and the resource is reverted to the original state.

Every Kyma environment consists of:

One or more Kubernetes clusters based on project "Gardener" on a cloud provider and region (data center) of your choice. To find out the available regions and providers, see Regions for the Kyma Environment.

A set of Kyma modules picked by a user in the release channel of their choice installed on the provisioned cluster.

Integration

Kyma environment runs on one or more Kubernetes clusters created in a specific subaccount. The configuration of the Kyma environment enables you to connect it to a multitude of SAP systems. This way, you can build various formations that aggregate the SAP systems and environment according to your business use cases.

SAP systems connected to a Kyma environment expose APIs and events. To extend the existing logic of these SAP services, you can build serverless applications called “Functions”, and trigger them to react to particular events or calls to your application's API. You can also use the Kyma environment to deploy microservices or even build full-stack applications.

Related Information
Getting Started in the Kyma Environment
Development in the Kyma Environment
Administration and Operations in the Kyma Environment
Security in the Kyma Environment
Discovery Center
What's New for SAP Business Technology Platform