URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/increasing-quota-for-abap-environment
Title: Increasing the Quota for the ABAP Environment | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…ABAP Environment: Initial SettingsIncreasing the Quota for the ABAP Environment
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Increasing the Quota for the ABAP Environment

Before you can create a service instance for the ABAP environment, you must assign some of the available quota to the subaccount for the ABAP environment.

Context
Note

If you have run the booster Prepare an Account for ABAP Development, you can skip this step.

If you are working in an enterprise account, you need to add quotas to the services that you purchased in your subaccount before they can appear in the service marketplace. For more information, see Configure Entitlements and Quotas for Subaccounts.

Procedure
Log on to the SAP BTP cockpit as administrator.
Go to your global account.
From the navigation area, choose Entitlements  Entity Assignments.
Enter the subaccount for the ABAP environment and choose Go.
Choose Configure Entitlements.
Choose Add Service Plans.

In the following popup, the available entitlements for this subaccount are shown.

For the ABAP environment entitlement, select the plans abap_compute_unit, standard, and hana_compute_unit.

With the selection of the standard service plan, you can size the ABAP runtime and the SAP HANA memory independently from each other. To be able to do your sizing, you must also select the quota plans abap_compute_unit and hana_compute_unit.

Choose Add 3 Service Plans.
On the following screen, increase the quotas in the abap_compute_unit service plan at least by 1 and in the hana_compute_unit service plan at least by 2.

The minimum configuration of 1 ABAP compute unit and 2 HANA compute units is sufficient in many cases to create one service instance for the ABAP environment. If you need more resources, choose higher quotas. Keep in mind that increasing the SAP HANA Cloud storage using the parameter size_of_persistence_disk consumes 0.002 HANA compute units for each GB that exceeds the minimal size of the persistence disk.

Choose Save.
Results

After you have assigned an entitlement for the three plans with respective quotas to your subaccount, you can create an ABAP system. This is the point where you can then decide how many blocks of ABAP compute units and HANA compute units you want to assign to your new system. See Creating an ABAP System.

Related Information
ABAP Compute Units