URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/account-administration-in-cockpit
Title: Account Administration in the Cockpit | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformAdministration and OperationsAccount AdministrationAccount Administration in the Cockpit
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Account Administration in the Cockpit

Learn about frequent administrative tasks you can perform using the SAP BTP cockpit, such as managing global accounts, directories, subaccounts, entitlements, and members.

Access the Cockpit

Learn how to access the SAP BTP cockpit.
Navigate in the Cockpit

Learn how to navigate to your global accounts, directories, and subaccounts in the SAP BTP cockpit.
Managing Global Accounts Using the Cockpit

Your SAP BTP global account is the entry point for managing the resources, landscape, and entitlements for your departments and projects in a self-service manner.
Managing Directories Using the Cockpit

Learn how to organize and manage your subaccounts according to your technical and business needs by using directories in the SAP BTP cockpit.
Managing Subaccounts Using the Cockpit

Learn how to structure a global account according to your organization’s and project’s requirements with regard to members, authorizations, and entitlements by managing subaccounts.
Managing Entitlements and Quotas Using the Cockpit

When you purchase an enterprise account, you are entitled to use a specific set of resources, such as the amount of memory that can be allocated to your applications.
Subscribe to Multitenant Applications Using the Cockpit

Subscribe to multitenant applications from the Subscriptions page in the SAP BTP cockpit.
Security Administration: Managing Authentication and Authorization

This section describes the tasks of administrators of SAP BTP. Administrators ensure user authentication and assign authorization information to users and user groups.
Related Information
Account Model