URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/development-in-kyma-environment
Title: Development in the Kyma Environment | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformDevelopmentDevelopment in the Kyma Environment
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Development in the Kyma Environment

Learn more about developing applications in SAP BTP, Kyma runtime.

Overview

With SAP BTP, Kyma runtime, you can build simple Functions, develop, and deploy more complex microservices, or mixtures of those, depending on your use case complexity level. Functions and microservices can act as stand-alone applications or extensions of these SAP systems:

SAP S/4HANA

SAP S/4HANA Cloud

SAP S/4HANA Cloud, public edition

SAP Field Service Management

SAP SuccessFactors

SAP Customer Experience systems:

SAP Commerce Cloud

SAP Cloud for Customer

SAP Marketing Cloud

Language of Choice

With the Kyma runtime, you can create microservices in the language of your choice and run them as containerized applications. Additionally, you can create Functions in Node.js or Python.

Kyma Dashboard and kubectl

The Kyma runtime comes with a central administration dashboard (Kyma dashboard), which allows you to add a module, deploy microservices, create Functions, and manage their configurations. You can also use it to connect SAP BTP services to your cluster and manage them using the SAP BTP Operator module, create instances of these services, and use them in your microservices or Functions. For more information, see Kyma Dashboard.

For those who prefer to work with command-line tools, the Kyma runtime also offers the Kubernetes command-line tool, kubectl.

SAP Cloud Application Programming Model

The SAP Cloud Application Programming Model (CAP) is the recommended framework for application and service development in the Kyma runtime. To learn more, see Programming Models.

Using API

The APIs of Kyma modules and third-party modules' may vary from the least stable alpha version through a more stable beta and the most stable vX version (X being an integer). While using the alpha version, you can face issues with module upgrades, because there is no guarantee that the API will not change or won’t be removed in the future. For more information, check the Kubernetes API versioning.

Tip
To get the list of the APIs, their kind, and version, run:


kubectl get crd -o custom-columns="KIND:.spec.names.kind,GROUP:.spec.group,VERSION:.spec.versions[*].name"

If an API is available in two versions, always use the version that is more stable.
Development Tutorials

To help you get started with the development process, go through the following missions that show how to develop applications in the Kyma runtime.

Build an Application in SAP BTP, Kyma Runtime

Develop a Full-Stack Application in SAP BTP, Kyma Runtime

Deploy a Full-Stack CAP Application in SAP BTP, Kyma Runtime Following SAP BTP Developer’s Guide

Related Information

Extension Samples

Kyma provides a ready-to-use project that contains sample applications. You can use them to build event- and API-based extensions in the Kyma runtime using your favorite technology. These samples are implemented in multiple languages and demonstrate various Kyma features and use case scenarios.

Using SAP BTP Services in the Kyma Environment

With the Kyma runtime, you can extend the SAP systems to build and deploy your own applications.

Deploy Workloads in the Kyma Environment to Extend SAP Systems

Access the Kyma runtime and start creating extensions for SAP systems using Functions.