URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/add-org-members-using-cockpit
Title: Add Org Members | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Managing Org MembersAdd Org Members
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Add Org Members

In the SAP BTP cockpit, add users as org members and assign roles to grant the users access to information, such as user and quota information in a Cloud Foundry org.

Prerequisites
You have the Org Manager role for the org in question.
Note

When you enable Cloud Foundry and the org is created, the Org Manager role is assigned automatically to you.

For more information, see About Roles in the Cloud Foundry Environment.

The users exist in a trusted platform identity provider.

For more information, see About User Management in the Cloud Foundry Environment.

Procedure
Navigate to your subaccount in the cockpit. Make sure that Cloud Foundry is enabled. For more information, see Navigate to Orgs and Spaces.
In the navigation area, choose Cloud Foundry  Org Members.
The screen displays all members currently assigned to the org in a list.
Choose Add Members.
Enter one or more e-mail addresses.

Use commas (,), spaces ( ), semicolons (;), or line breaks to separate members.

Enter the Origin for the identity provider, which hosts the members you just added.

The default identity provider is sap.ids. For more information, see Default Identity Provider.

If the new members are platform users from a custom identity provider, enter the origin.

Select the corresponding origin of the Identity Authentication tenant.

Note

The option to select an origin appears only if you have two or more identity providers.

For more information about finding the origin, see Establish Trust and Federation of Custom Identity Providers for Platform Users.

Select the org roles you want to assign.

For more information, see About Roles in the Cloud Foundry Environment.

Choose Add.
Next Steps

To change the roles of a member, see Edit Org Members.

To remove all the roles of a member, see Delete Org Members.

This action removes the member from the organization and any spaces in the org.

If the users need to view or manage applications in spaces, add the users to the relevant spaces, too.

For more information, see Add Space Members.

Related Information
Add Organization Members Using the Cloud Foundry Command Line Interface