URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/best-practices/basic-platform-concepts
Title: Basic Platform Concepts | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP Administrator's GuideBasic Platform Concepts
SAP BTP Administrator's GuideEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Basic Platform Concepts

SAP BTP offers users the ability to turn data into business value, compose end-to-end business processes, and build and extend SAP applications quickly.

SAP Business Technology Platform is built on a multi-cloud foundation, which lets you choose from different infrastructures and runtimes. The services and solutions of SAP BTP are available on multiple cloud infrastructure providers, and it supports different runtimes, such as Cloud Foundry, ABAP, and Kyma, as well as multiple regions, and a broad choice of programming languages.

The central point of entry to the platform is the SAP BTP cockpit, where you can access your accounts and applications and manage all activities associated with them.

Check out the SAP Discovery Center to get an overview on the available SAP BTP services, discover missions that guide you step-by-step, and explore reference architectures.

Overview of Global Accounts, Directories, and Subaccounts

The following diagram depicts the relationship between a global account, its directories, subaccounts, runtime environments, regions, entitlements, and quotas.

Administrative Tasks

Level

Administrative Tasks

Global Account

Global accounts are region- and runtime-independent.

Usually, for each commercial model (licence type), you get a separate global account. It is however possible to combine two commercial models in one global account. See Commercial Models.

Appoint at least one person as administrator. The administrator is responsible for adding new subaccounts, adding members to a global account, and managing the entitlements.

You purchase entitlements for each global account (according to your commercial model). The administrator of the global account distributes quotas to the individual subaccounts.

Directory (optional)

Directories are groups of subaccounts that you can manage, operate, and analyze together.

Appoint at least one person as administrator. The administrator is responsible for adding new subaccounts, managing members, and managing entitlements.

Subaccount

Each subaccount runs in exactly one region. Within a subaccount, you can enable multiple, different runtime environments.

Appoint at least one person as administrator. The administrator is responsible for adding new members to the subaccount and assigning their business roles.

Recommendation

For each administrator, we recommend that you also appoint at least one substitute administrator. If the main administrator leaves the company or is unavailable, it's important that you have someone who's available to take over these tasks.

For more information, see Account Model and Setting Up Your Account Model.

Capabilities and Services

SAP BTP offers fast in-memory processing, sustainable, agile solutions and services to integrate data and extend applications, and fully embedded analytics and intelligent technologies.

Services enable, facilitate, or accelerate the development of business applications and other platform services on SAP BTP.

For a complete list of services and capabilities, see Services.

For more information, see Solutions and Services.

Entitlements and Quotas

When you purchase an enterprise account, you’re entitled to use a specific set of resources, such as the amount of memory that can be allocated to your applications.

On SAP BTP, all external dependencies such as databases, messaging systems, files systems, and so on, are services. In this context, multitenant applications and environments are considered services.

Each service has one or more service plans available. A service plan is the representation of the costs and benefits for a given variant of a particular service. For instance, a database may be configured with various "T-shirt sizes", each of which is a different service plan.

An entitlement is your right to provision and consume a resource. In other words, entitlements are the service plans that you're entitled to use.

A quota represents the numeric quantity of a service plan that you're entitled to consume in your global account and its subaccounts.

Entitlements are either managed at global account or directory level and are distributed from there to subaccounts.

For more information, see Entitlements and Quotas and Managing Entitlements and Quotas Using the Cockpit.

User and Member Management

On SAP BTP, user management takes place at all levels from global account to environment. There are different types of users, such as depending on their roles in the company.

User accounts enable users to log on to SAP BTP, access subaccounts, and to use applications according to the permissions granted to them. We distinguish between two types of users:

Platform users are usually developers, administrators or operators who deploy, administer, and troubleshoot accounts, applications and services on SAP BTP.

Business users use the applications that are deployed to SAP BTP. For example, the end users of SaaS apps or services, such as SAP Build Work Zone, or end users of your custom applications are business users.

Member management refers to managing permissions for platform users. A member is a user who is assigned to an SAP BTP global account or subaccount. Administrators can add users to global accounts and subaccounts and assign roles to them as needed. You can use predefined roles, for example the administrator role for managing subaccount members.

User management refers to managing authentication and authorization for your business users.

For more information, see User and Member Management.

Account Model

The SAP BTP cockpit is structured according to global accounts and subaccounts. You can also use directories and labels to organize your account model.

Global Accounts

A global account is the realization of a contract you or your company has made with SAP.

A global account is used to manage subaccounts, members, entitlements and quotas. You receive entitlements and quotas to use platform resources per global account and then distribute the entitlements and quotas to the subaccount for actual consumption. There are two types of commercial models for global accounts: consumption-based model and subscription-based model. See Commercial Models .

Global accounts are region- and environment-independent. Within a global account, you manage all of your subaccounts, which in turn are specific to one region.

Subaccounts
In subaccounts, you deploy applications, use services, and manage your subscriptions. You can use them to manage members, authorizations, and entitlements.

A global account can contain one or more subaccounts in which you deploy applications, use services, and manage your subscriptions. Subaccounts in a global account are independent from each other. This is important to consider with respect to security, member management, data management, data migration, integration, and so on, when you plan your landscape and overall architecture.

Each subaccount is associated with a region, which is the physical location where applications, data, or services are hosted. The specific region is relevant when you deploy applications and access the SAP BTP cockpit using the corresponding cockpit URL. The region assigned to your subaccount doesn't have to be directly related to your location. You could be located in the United States, for example, but operate your subaccount in Europe.

The entitlements and quotas that have been purchased for a global account have to be assigned to the individual subaccounts.

Global accounts and subaccounts are completely independent of user accounts. For more information, see User and Member Management.

Subaccounts, Cloud Foundry Orgs and Kyma Clusters

When you enable the Cloud Foundry environment in one of your subaccounts, the system automatically creates a Cloud Foundry org for you. The subaccount and the org have a 1:1 relationship and the same navigation level in the cockpit (even though they may have different names). You can create spaces within that Cloud Foundry org. Spaces let you further break down your account model and use services and functions in the Cloud Foundry environment.

For more information about Cloud Foundry orgs and spaces, see the Cloud Foundry documentation at https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/roles.html.

When you enable the Kyma environment in one of your subaccounts, you can provision one or more Kubernetes clusters equipped with the latest version of the open-source project "Kyma". The subaccount and the Kyma cluster have a 1:n relationship - you can choose to create more than one cluster right away, or add clusters later.

Within each Kyma cluster, you can create namespaces to organize your workloads and control access to resources. Namespaces let you further break down your account model and use services and functions in the Kyma environment. For more information, see the Kubernetes documentation at https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/.

Directories

With directories, you can organize and manage your subaccounts according to your technical and business needs.

A directory can contain directories and subaccounts to create a hierarchy. Using directories to group other directories and subaccounts is optional - you can still create subaccounts directly under your global account.

You can create a hierarchical structure that is up to 7 levels deep. The highest level of a given path is always the global account and the lowest is a subaccount, which means that you can have up to 5 levels of directories between the global account and the lowest level subaccount.

Directories enable you to:

Group and filter directories and subaccounts

Monitor usage and costs for contracts that use the consumption-based commercial model

Optionally, you can also enable the following features in your directories:

Manage Entitlements: Enables the assignment of a quota for services and applications to the directory from the global account quota, for distribution to the directory's subaccounts.

When you assign entitlements to a directory, you express the entitlements and maximum quota that can be distributed across its children subaccounts. You also have the option to choose the auto-assignment of a set amount of quota to all subaccounts created or moved to that directory. Subaccounts that are already in the directory when you select that option will not be auto-assigned quota.

Note

If you've enabled the Manage Entitlements feature for a given directory, you must first assign the necessary entitlements and maximum allowed quota from the global account to that directory. Then you can distribute this "reserved" quota to any of the directory's child subaccounts.

Manage Authorizations: Enables authorization management for the directory. For example, it allows certain users to manage directory entitlements. You can only use this feature in combination with the Manage Entitlements feature.

Labels

Labels are user-defined words or phrases that you can assign to various entities in SAP BTP to categorize them in your global account, to identify them more easily. They let you organize and filter your directories, subaccounts, instances and subscriptions within your global account.

For more information, see Labels.

Related Information
Account Model
Managing Global Accounts Using the Cockpit
Managing Directories Using the Cockpit
Managing Subaccounts Using the Cockpit
Setting Up Your Account Model
Commercial Models

SAP BTP offers two different commercial models for enterprise accounts.

Consumption-based commercial model: Your organization receives access to all current and future services that are eligible for this model. You have complete flexibility to turn services on and off and to switch between services as your business requires throughout the duration of your contract. This commercial model is available in the following flavors: SAP BTP Enterprise Agreement (SAP BTPEA), Cloud Platform Enterprise Agreement (CPEA), and Pay-As-You-Go for SAP BTP.

For more information, see What Is the Consumption-Based Commercial Model?

Subscription-based commercial model: Your organization subscribes only to the services that you plan to use. You can then use these services at a fixed cost, irrespective of consumption.

For more information, see What Is the Subscription-Based Commercial Model?

Note

You can use both commercial models, either in separate global accounts or in the same global account depending on your business needs. Contact your SAP account executive or sales representative for more information. Note however that you cannot mix more than one flavor of the consumption-based commercial model in the same global account.

For information about service availability, prices, and estimators, see https://www.sap.com/products/technology-platform/solutions.html and https://www.sap.com/products/technology-platform/integration-suite/pricing.html. You can also view the service catalog via the SAP Discovery Center.

Environments

Environments constitute the actual platform-as-a-service offering of SAP BTP that allows for the development and administration of business applications. Environments are anchored in SAP BTP on subaccount level.

Each environment comes equipped with specific tools, technologies, and runtimes that you need to build applications. So a multi-environment subaccount is your single address to host a variety of applications and offer diverse development options. One advantage of using different environments in one subaccount is that you only need to manage users, authorizations, and entitlements once per subaccount, and thus grant more flexibility to your developers.

You can use different environments within the same subaccount: Choose multi-environment subaccounts to use Cloud Foundry, ABAP, and Kyma within the same subaccount. However, inside such a multi-environment subaccount, you cannot use Neo. To use Neo, you create a separate Neo subaccount. Neo cannot be combined with other environments in the same subaccount.

SAP offers the following environments:

Cloud Foundry Environment

The Cloud Foundry environment enables you to develop new business applications and business services, supporting multiple runtimes, programming languages, libraries, and services. You can leverage a multitude of buildpacks, including community innovations and self-developed buildpacks.

ABAP Environment

The ABAP environment allows you to create extensions for ABAP-based products, such as SAP S/4HANA Cloud, and develop new cloud applications. You can transform existing ABAP-based custom code or extensions to the cloud.

To plan and set up your landscape and lifecycle management in the ABAP environment, see ABAP Lifecycle Management.

Kyma Environment

SAP BTP, Kyma runtime provides a fully managed cloud-native Kubernetes application runtime based on the open-source project "Kyma". Based on modular building blocks, Kyma runtime includes all the necessary capabilities to simplify the development and to run enterprise-grade cloud-native applications.

Neo Environment

The Neo environment lets you develop HTML5, Java, and SAP HANA extended application services (SAP HANA XS) applications. You can also use the UI Development Toolkit for HTML5 (SAPUI5) to develop rich user interfaces for modern web-based business applications.

If you consider creating Neo subaccounts, see Migrating from the Neo Environment to the Multi-Cloud Foundation for SAP BTP (Cloud Foundry and Kyma) to learn about the Neo environment and the multi-cloud foundation.

Environment Instances
To actually use an environment in a subaccount, you must enable it, which creates an instance of that environment. There are several ways to create environment instances:

In the SAP BTP cockpit, on the subaccount overview, choose Enable.

In the SAP BTP cockpit, under Service Marketplace. Here, you get more information, such as the available plans and links to further information.

Using the btp CLI command btp create accounts/environment-instance

Related Information
SAP BTP, Serverless Runtime
Consuming SAP BTP Services from Various Environments
Regions

You can deploy applications in different regions. Each region represents a geographical location (for example, Europe, US East) where applications, data, or services are hosted.

Regions are provided either by SAP or by our Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) partners Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, and Alibaba Cloud. The third-party region providers operate the infrastructure layer of the regions, whereas SAP operates the platform layer and Cloud Foundry.

A region is chosen at the subaccount level. For each subaccount, you select exactly one region (that is one data center).

For more information, see Regions.

Selecting a Region

When deciding on the location of your Platform as a Service (PaaS), consider existing Software as a Service (SaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and try to locate it close to those or even in the same data center. You can also optimize application performance (response time, latency) by selecting a region that's geographically close to your users. However, the selection of a region also depends on many other factors:

Check the availability of specific services in the individual regions.

Ensure that you comply with security requirements, such as country- or industry-specific data privacy regulations.

Consider the location of other cloud offerings you’re using. You might have to locate your solutions in the same data center.

For a complete overview of the availability of services in the different regions, see Services.

Note

To work with the Kyma environment, you need to specify the region for both your subaccount and the cluster. Note that there is a number of regions available within each plan. For details, see Regions for the Kyma Environment.