URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/role-based-access-control-rbac-in-kyma
Title: Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) in Kyma | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP Administrator's Guide…Setting Up AuthorizationRole-Based Access Control (RBAC) in Kyma
SAP BTP Administrator's GuideEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) in Kyma

Assigning permissions in Kyma is based on the Kubernetes role-based access control (RBAC). It’s recommended that you start with separating the developers and operators of a cluster. Later, you can refine the role concept as required.

Recommended Role Setup

The goal of the recommended role setup is to implement Kubernetes RBAC best practices, which is a method of regulating access to computer or network resources based on the roles of individual users within your organization.

The role setup separates the operators from the development teams, and day-to-day user accounts from administrative accounts. It enables DevOps while ensuring security on production clusters.

In production clusters and development and test clusters alike, each service, project, or development team should have its own namespace.

Typically, it‘s useful that developers have read access to dedicated resources on cluster level or in other namespaces, such as “Istio” or “Application Connector”. Use the ClusterRole common-resource-viewer for this. Additional modules can bring additional resources. For more information, see Kyma Modules.

The suggested setup uses the Kubernetes objects “ClusterRole”, “RoleBinding”, and “ClusterRoleBinding”. For examples of the required Kubernetes objects, see the suggested manifest templates.

In RoleBindings and ClusterRolebindings, use groups instead of users. For more information about group management in SAP Cloud Identity Services, see Groups.

To reduce the number of accounts directly assigned to powerful roles in the cluster, use Kubernetes impersonation.

Impersonation in Kubernetes
Role Setup for Operators
Role Setup for Developers (Dev and Test)
Role Setup for Developers (Prod)
Tip

Use the following manifest templates to set up the recommended role concept.

Expand the sections to see the role setup for each purpose, and within the sections, expand the sample code to see the manifest templates.

Kubernetes Manifest Templates for Generic Roles
View All Resources
View Common Kyma Objects in the Cluster
Kubernetes Manifest Templates for Operators
View Access for All Clusters
Admin Access for All Clusters
Kubernetes Manifest Templates for Developers
Namespace Admin Access for Dev and Test
Admin Access for Prod
Read Access to Namespace for Prod
Related Information
Kubernetes: Using RBAC Authorization
Kubernetes: Role Based Access Control Good Practices
SAP Blogs: Using the Kubernetes-native Role-based access control
Assign Roles in the Kyma Environment
Cloud Foundry, Kyma, or Both?