URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/service-instance-secrets
Title: Service Instance Secrets | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Managing Secrets of the SAP Authorization and Trust Management Se…Service Instance Secrets
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Service Instance Secrets

When an application consumes a service instance of the SAP Authorization and Trust Management service (XSUAA), the application identifies itself to the service instance with a client ID and a secret. The client ID and secret are the credentials with which an application authenticates itself to the service instance.

The SAP Authorization and Trust Management service (XSUAA) creates these credentials either when you bind the application to the service instance or when you create a service key for the service instance.

The service instance can use multiple secrets in the application plan.

The instance secret is the same for all bindings of the service instance. The secret remains valid as long as the instance exists.

Note

Starting with January, 19, 2026, the instance-secret credential type isn't supported anymore for new bindings and service keys. We recommend to remove old bindings with this credential type.

The binding secret is the default secret type. Binding secrets must be enabled in the application security descriptor (xs-security.json) when you create the service instance. When you bind an application to a service instance or create a service key, you can pass a parameters.json to use a binding secret. The secret remains valid as long as the binding or the service key exists.

X.509 secrets must be enabled in the application security descriptor (xs-security.json) when you create the service instance. When you bind an application to a service instance or create a service key, you can pass a parameters.json to use an X.509 secret. SAP Authorization and Trust Management service can generate an X.509 certificate for you or you can provide your own. The X.509 secret remains valid as long as the certificate itself is valid.

Note

The service doesn't check for certificate revocation. To stop the service from accepting a certificate that is still valid, delete the relevant bindings or service keys. As soon as the binding is deleted, the service stops accepting the certificate.

For bindings with self-managed certificates and the certificate-pinning parameter set to false, you can rotate the secrets without deleting bindings. Just use a new certificate with the same subject and issuer distinguished name (DN). The service saves the new validity date of the new certificate.

For more information, see Parameters for Self-Managed X.509 Certificates.

The following figure illustrates the XSUAA app and the binding information about the OAuth 2.0 client as part of a service instance of the SAP Authorization and Trust Management service. A consuming application, functioning as an OAuth 2.0 client is bound to the SAP Authorization and Trust Management service instance. The secret is part of the environment of the consuming application and the information about the OAuth 2.0 client saved with the XSUAA app. Alternatively, this information is saved as part of a service key.

Binding Between an SAP Authorization and Trust Management Service Instance and a Consuming Application

The credential-types parameter of the OAuth client configuration in the application security descriptor (xs-security.json) determines which types of secrets that bindings support.

In the following example, the service instance creates a binding secret for all new bindings. It allows the creation of X.509 secrets.

Example
Sample Code


"oauth2-configuration": {

"credential-types": ["binding-secret","x509"]
}

In the following example, the service instance creates a binding secret for all new bindings, but doesn’t accept the instance secret or the use of X.509 secrets.

Example
Sample Code


"oauth2-configuration": {

"credential-types": ["binding-secret"]
}
Related Information
Rotate Binding Secrets
Rotating Instance Secrets
Migrate from Instance Secrets to Binding Secrets
Application Security Descriptor Configuration Syntax
Limits for Technical Artifacts of the SAP Authorization and Trust Management Service