URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/configure-entitlements-for-sap-s-4hana-cloud-extensibility-service
Title: Configure the Entitlements for the SAP S/4HANA Cloud Extensibility Service | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Extending SAP S/4HANA Cloud in the Cloud Foundry and Kyma Environ…Configure the Entitlements for the SAP S/4HANA Cloud Extensibilit…
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Configure the Entitlements for the SAP S/4HANA Cloud Extensibility Service

Configure the required entitlements to make the APIs of the registered SAP S/4HANA Cloud system accessible in your subaccount in which your extension applications will reside.

Prerequisites

You are an administrator of the global account in SAP BTP.

The subaccount is in the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry environment with enabled Cloud Foundry, or Kyma, or both capabilities.

You have registered an SAP S/4HANA Cloud system. See Register an SAP S/4HANA Cloud System in a Global Account in SAP BTP.

Context

An entitlement is your right to provision and consume a resource. In other words, the entitlement is the respective service plan, api-access or messaging, that you're entitled to use.

Procedure
In the SAP BTP cockpit, navigate to your global account.
In the navigation area, choose Entitlements  Entity Assignments.
On the Entity Assignments screen, select your subaccount in the Subaccounts/Directories field.
Choose Edit, and then choose Add Service Plans.
Select the SAP S/4HANA Cloud Extensibility service.
Note

To have the SAP S/4HANA Cloud Extensibility service in the list, you need to have registered at least one SAP S/4HANA Cloud system.

In the Service Details area, select the system you have registered. In the Available Plans area, select the required service plans, and then choose Add Service Plan.
Note

For more information about the available service plans for SAP S/4HANA Cloud Extensibility service, see Supported Service Plans for SAP S/4HANA Cloud.

Choose Save.
Related Information
Configure Entitlements and Quotas for Subaccounts