URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/about-user-management-in-cloud-foundry-environment
Title: About User Management in the Cloud Foundry Environment | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformAdministration and OperationsAdministration and Operations in the Cloud Foundry EnvironmentAbout User Management in the Cloud Foundry Environment
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

About User Management in the Cloud Foundry Environment

The Cloud Foundry environment has its own store for user data within SAP BTP. Understanding the relationship between SAP BTP and the Cloud Foundry environment is useful.

All users of Cloud Foundry and SAP BTP are stored in identity providers. Both require a local copy of the users so that you can assign authorizations to those users. When a user tries to log on, the user is forwarded to the identity provider to authenticate. When you add a user as a member to an org or space, there's no check whether or not this user actually exists in the identity provider you specified.

Org members can only be added by an Org Manager. If you only have the Space Manager role, you can only add space members that are known to the org. To do that, you must first ask your Org Manager to add the users as org members with no roles.

Note

All org members implicitly have the Org User role.

If you’re the Org Manager, you already have the authorizations to add users to the org. When you add a new user as a space member, that user is added automatically as part of the org as well.

Cloud Foundry and Shadow Users

Whenever you add a user at the org or space level with the SAP BTP cockpit, SAP BTP also creates the user at the subaccount level, also known as a shadow user. When you use the SAP BTP cockpit to add a user, SAP BTP assigns at least one Cloud Foundry role to the user, namely Org User if you don't add any other role. SAP BTP checks for Cloud Foundry users with a role and creates corresponding shadow users at the subaccount level if no such user exists. Creating users with the Cloud Foundry CLI or Cloud Foundry APIs doesn't add any Cloud Foundry roles by default. Once you add a role to the user, the system ensures that there's a corresponding user at the subaccount level.

Remember

When you delete a user at the Cloud Foundry level, SAP BTP doesn’t delete the corresponding shadow user at the subaccount level.

When you delete a user at the subaccount level, delete the user at the Cloud Foundry org and space levels, too. Otherwise, the system automatically creates the corresponding user at the subaccount level if the user has a Cloud Foundry role.

For more information about shadow users, see Working with Users.

User Provisioning

For user management of Cloud Foundry organizations, use the provisioning connectors of SAP Cloud Identity Services - Identity Provisioning. For more information, see SAP BTP Integration Scenario.

Restriction

If user provisioning through the Cloud Foundry environment is active in SAP Cloud Identity Services - Identity Provisioning, you can provision a maximum of 1000 platform users.

Related Information
User and Member Management
About Roles in the Cloud Foundry Environment
Add Org Members
Add Organization Members Using the Cloud Foundry Command Line Interface
Add Space Members
Add Space Members Using the Cloud Foundry Command Line Interface