URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/platform-updates-and-notifications
Title: Platform Updates and Notifications | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformGetting SupportPlatform Updates and Notifications
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Platform Updates and Notifications

SAP BTP is a dynamic product, which has continuous production releases (updates). To get notifications for the new features and fixes every release, subscribe at What's New for SAP Business Technology Platform. For more information, see Subscribing to What's New Notifications.

Reasons for Region Updates

Regions are updated in the following cases:

Biweekly updates (standard) - aligned with the contractual obligations to customers and partners. Such updates usually don’t affect productive applications, because most services support zero downtime maintenance. For more information about the biweekly updates, see Consolidated Release Schedules for SAP BTP, Intelligent Enterprise Suite: Harmonized release calendar for SAP Cloud products, and Service Level Agreement for SAP Cloud Services.

Immediate updates - fixes required for bugs that affect productive application operations, or due to urgent security fixes. In some cases, this might lead to downtime or application restart, for which the application groups receive a notification.

Major upgrades - happen rarely, in a bigger maintenance window, up to four times per year. For the time frames of the services' major upgrades, see Service Level Agreement for SAP Cloud Services. We let you know about these upgrades 4 weeks in advance.

Announcements and Subscriptions [AWS, Azure, or GCP Regions]

You can follow the availability of the platform at SAP Trust Center. You can check:

the availability by service on the Cloud Status tab page;

the availability by region on the Data Center tab page.

In addition, you can use Cloud Availability Center (CAC) to check what cloud products and services are assigned to your customer ID for notifications. CAC provides you with a personalized dashboard based on SAP Fiori. It's designed to give you quick access to relevant information about the cloud products that you own and their availability and maintenance status. For more information, see CAC User Guide.

You can find information about the supported Cloud Product  Cloud Service at Supported Products.

Note

The foundational components of the platform are included in SAP Extension Suite – Development Efficiency  Foundational Services for SAP BTP.

To get notifications for updates and downtimes, create a subscription by specifying Cloud Product, Cloud Service, and Notification Type. For more information, see Cloud System Notification Subscriptions User Guide.

Example

To receive notifications about changes in the IP ranges of a region, subscribe to SAP Extension Suite – Development Efficiency  Foundational Services for SAP BTP.

Example

To receive notifications about what application processes to restart to apply new security patches, subscribe to SAP Extension Suite – Development Efficiency  Foundational Services for SAP BTP.

Announcements and Subscriptions [China (Shanghai) Region]

You can follow the availability of the platform and the announcements about upcoming updates and downtimes at China (Shanghai) region status page. Subscribe to the status page to get notifications for updates and downtimes.

Announcements and Subscriptions [Government Cloud (US) Region]

Planned downtimes and outage communication are sent through e-mail to the initial administrator of your global account.

Related Information
What's New
Regions
Release Schedule for cross and foundational services of SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry environment
Release Schedule for SAP BTP, Kyma Runtime