URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/btp-admin-guide/setting-up-identity-lifecycle
Title: Setting Up Identity Lifecycle | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP Administrator's GuideSet Up and PlanSetting Up Your Security and Compliance ModelSetting Up Identity Lifecycle
SAP BTP Administrator's GuideEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Setting Up Identity Lifecycle

As people join, change roles, and eventually leave your organization, you care for the onboarding, maintenance, and offboarding of their users in your systems. If you're a small organization, you can use manual processes, otherwise you need to automate.

We strongly recommend creating users within SAP Cloud Identity Services. In certain scenarios, such as when using Joule or SAP SuccessFactors People Analytics, the existence of users in SAP Cloud Identity Services is mandatory.

The persistency layer of SAP Cloud Identity Services is the Identity Directory. Use SAP Cloud Identity Services - Identity Provisioning to provision users to SAP cloud solutions, such as SAP BTP. Identity Provisioning has connectors to distribute user artifacts needed at different levels of your SAP BTP accounts. By managing your identities centrally, you also ensure that when you offboard users, they're removed from target systems.

SAP Cloud Identity Services Managing SAP Cloud Applications
User Identifiers

The global user ID is a unique identifier across technology layers, products, and solutions in the Intelligent Enterprise. The global user ID enables you to correlate information about a user across applications. SAP Cloud Identity Services is best equipped to handle SAP-specific attributes, such as the global user ID. In fact, cloud solutions like SAP Task Center only function when using SAP Cloud Identity Services to manage the global user ID. SAP Cloud Identity Services can generate the global user ID for you or you can provide your own.

Recommendation

If you generate your own global user ID, don’t use attributes that may change over time. Attributes in email format are not allowed, as the at-sign (@) is not a valid character. We generate a universally unique identifier (UUID) that remains stable as long as the user is in the system.

For more information, see Global User ID in Integration Scenarios in the System Integration Guide for SAP Cloud Identity Services.

Before starting your integration, determine which system owns the global user ID and ensure that the attribute's format is used consistently across your landscape. We recommend that SAP Cloud Identity Services own and generate the global user ID in the Identity Directory. Once generated, distribute the global user ID from the Identity Directory to your business applications, ensuring that they all support this attribute.

The global user ID is primarily used for correlation. It should be included in the token issued by the identity provider. While it doesn't need to be configured as the subject name identifier, which is typically reserved for a unique identifier for users during authentication, it can be if necessary.

User Provisioning

Define a system of origin for each user type, such as employees, contractors, and external users, to ensure proper access control based on user roles and their relationship with your organization. SAP SuccessFactors typically serves as the system of origin for employees, while SAP Fieldglass is often used for managing external workforces.

Avoid configuring multiple systems of origin for one and the same user to prevent conflicts and overwriting of user data. If this cannot be avoided, set up pairs of source and Identity Directory target systems to control which user attribute comes from each source system.

For more information, see Merging Data from Multiple Sources.

If you already have your own identity and access management solution, use this solution to ensure the correctness and consistency of user data. Identity Provisioning synchronizes the user or group data between SAP Cloud Identity Services and all SAP cloud applications, eliminating the need to maintain custom point-to-point connections.

For more information, see System Integration Guide for SAP Cloud Identity Services:

Scenario Recommendations

SAP BTP Integration Scenario

To authenticate with SAP BTP, the system needs user artifacts such as:

E-mail address of the user

Identity provider that authenticates the user

The ABAP and Kyma environments require a unique email address.

An administrator can create these users manually or in some cases allow for automatic creation after successful authentication at the identity provider. SAP BTP provides tools such as the SAP BTP cockpit, command-line interfaces, and APIs to enable you to manage this data yourself.

Schedule provisioning jobs for regular user data synchronization, and make sure to test your configurations with simulation and validation jobs beforehand.

For more information, see Start and Stop Provisioning Jobs.

Related Information
Account Administration
Complying with Data Protection and Privacy Requirements