URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/btp-admin-guide/improve-and-retire
Title: Improve and Retire | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP BTP Administrator's GuideImprove and Retire
SAP BTP Administrator's GuideEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Improve and Retire

Once your application has gone live, we recommend that you continually ensure its quality. If you determine that you no longer need it, you should retire it.

Migrating from Neo to Multi-Cloud

SAP is integrating more closely with hyperscalers, such as Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform, and Microsoft Azure. If you are currently running scenarios in our Neo enviroment, please have a look at our migration guide for moving from Neo to the multi-cloud foundation.

Migrating from the Neo Environment to the Multi-Cloud Foundation for SAP BTP (Cloud Foundry and Kyma)

Retiring Your Application

If your application is no longer needed, the Cloud Administration and the Cloud Development Teams should ensure that it is properly retired (for example, undeploying the application and deleting related service instances and other related platform content such as destinations or role collections), and that all data retention requirements are met.

Improving and Maintaining Your Application

Once an application has gone live, the Cloud Development Team is responsible for housekeeping and ongoing improvements.

The team should:

Regularly verify and test the application to avoid issues caused by library and platform updates, such as a new SAPUI5 version

Ensure that the application remains compliant with all applicable standards and guidelines

Fix bugs in a timely manner, and ensure that the user experience remains of high quality and is improved and adapted over time

Listen to user feedback

Set up alerting that informs you automatically about issues with your application, for example by using SAP Alert Notification service

Identify recurring operation tasks and automate them, such as by using Automation Pilot. This services provides catalogs of automated technical operation tasks for handling the lifecycle of apps running on SAP BTP, such as for alert remediation and recurring DevOps tasks.

Adapt/extend your application as required:

For deploying new application versions in the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry environment, consider using a blue-green deployment, in which you deploy a new application version in parallel to the previous version to test it and to route to the new version only after successful testing and without downtime – for more information, see Multitarget Application Commands for the Cloud Foundry Environment.

In the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry environment, consider using the Feature Flag service that lets you enable or disable specific features in a production solution, for testing purposes, without having to redeploy or restart the solution.

Recommendation

To stay up to date, we recommend that you regularly check the Release Notes (or subscribe to receive automatic notifications) and the SAP Community.

Related Information
SAP Alert Notification service
SAP Automation Pilot