URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/change-subaccount-details
Title: Change Subaccount Details | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Managing Subaccounts Using the CockpitChange Subaccount Details
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Change Subaccount Details

Edit subaccounts using the SAP BTP cockpit.

Context

You edit a subaccount by choosing the relevant action on its tile. It's available in the global account view, which shows all its subaccounts.

The subaccount technical name is a unique identifier of the subaccount on SAP BTP that is generated when the subaccount is created.

You can change to the following subaccount details:

Editable Subaccount Details

Field

Details

Display Name

Specify a human-readable name for your subaccount and change it later on, if necessary. This way you can distinguish between multiple subaccounts.

Description

(Optional) Specify a short descriptive text about the subaccount.

Parent

Change the parent of your subaccount.

When you create a subaccount, this is added as a direct child of the global account you created it in. You can change your subaccount's parent and add it to a directory, move it from one directory to another, or remove from a directory by making the global account its parent once again.

Used for production

(Optional) Select this option if your subaccount is being used for production purposes.

This does not change the configuration of your subaccount. Use this flag for your internal use to operate your production subaccounts in your global account and systems more efficiently. Your cloud operator may also use this flag to take appropriate action when handling incidents related to mission-critical accounts in production systems. Since subaccounts that are marked as used for production cannot be force deleted, this option also prevents an accidental forced deletion of the account.

Do not select this option if your account is used for non-production purposes, such as development, testing, and demos.

Labels

(Optional) Assign, change, or remove labels from your subaccount. Labels help to make organizing and filtering your subaccounts easier. For more information, see Labels.

Tip

When adding multiple values to a label, press Enter after each value.

When you start typing, any matching label names and values that are already assigned to other subaccounts in your global account are offered as suggestions.

Enable beta features

(Optional) Enable the subaccount to use services and applications which are occasionally made available by SAP for beta usage on SAP BTP. This option is available to administrators only and is, by default, unselected.

Caution

You shouldn't use SAP BTP beta features in subaccounts that belong to productive enterprise accounts. For more information, see Important Disclaimers and Legal Information.

Note

Once you have enabled this setting in a subaccount you cannot disable it.

Note

If you enable this setting in a subaccount that is already consuming services and subscriptions, these consumed resources will not be automatically updated to beta versions if they exist.

Procedure
Choose the subaccount for which you'd like to make changes and choose  on its tile.

You can view more details about the subaccount such as its description and additional attributes by choosing Show More.

Make your changes and save them.
Related Information
Navigate in the Cockpit
Change the Default Database System