URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/automating-integrations-with-sap-advanced-financial-closing
Title: Automating Integrations with SAP Advanced Financial Closing | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Formations for Business ScenariosAutomating Integrations with SAP Advanced Financial Closing
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Automating Integrations with SAP Advanced Financial Closing

Use
Note

The content in this section is not relevant for China (Shanghai) and Government Cloud (US) regions.

SAP Advanced Financial Closing supports you in planning, processing, monitoring, and analyzing financial closing tasks for the entities of your group. See SAP Advanced Financial Closing User Guide.

To set up SAP Advanced Financial Closing with SAP S/4HANA Cloud on SAP BTP you need to have all the necessary systems included in a formation of type Integration with SAP Advanced Financial Closing in the System Landscape  Systems page of the SAP BTP cockpit.

Note

This documentation refers to SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition. See Introduction to the Universe of SAP S/4HANA Cloud Public Edition.

Rules

When creating Integration with SAP Advanced Financial Closing formations, keep in mind the following rule:

Only SAP S/4HANA Cloud systems that are registered with All Communication Scenarios or the Integration with SAP Advanced Financial Closing communication scenario groups, can be part of a Integration with SAP Advanced Financial Closing formation. See Register an SAP S/4HANA Cloud System in a Global Account in SAP BTP.

Prerequisites

You are a global account administrator, or you are a system landscape administrator. See Working with Role Collections.

You have an Identity Authentication tenant. See Indentity Authentication: Initial Setup.

Register the SAP S/4HANA Cloud system in the Systems page.

When you register an SAP S/4HANA Cloud system, use the All Communication Scenarios or the Integration with SAP Advanced Financial Closing communication scenario groups when you get the registration token for the SAP S/4HANA Cloud system. This allows the automatic enablement of the SAP_COM_0566 communication scenario after the corresponding system is added to the formation of type Integration with SAP Advanced Financial Closing. See Register an SAP S/4HANA Cloud System in a Global Account in SAP BTP.

Procedure

If you have SAP Advanced Financial Closing set up in your subaccount in SAP BTP, follow these steps to configure the integration between SAP Advanced Financial Closing and SAP S/4HANA Cloud using a formation of type Integration with SAP Advanced Financial Closing.

As an alternative to the steps that follow, you can use the Set Up SAP Advanced Financial Closing booster in the SAP BTP cockpit and have the end-to-end scenario set up. See SAP Advanced Financial Closing Administration Guide: Automated Setup.

Note

We recommend that you use the Set Up SAP Advanced Financial Closing booster.

In the Systems page, find the systems of type SAP Advanced Financial Closing and SAP S/4HANA Cloud that you want to include in a formation.

In the System Landscape  Formations page, create a formation of type Integration with SAP Advanced Financial Closing and include the relevant systems in it.

Add any name that helps you identify your formation.

In the Formation Type dropdown menu, select Integration with SAP Advanced Financial Closing.

Select the SAP Advanced Financial Closing and SAP S/4HANA Cloud systems that you want to include in the formation.

Review your selections and create the formation.

Next Steps

When the formation is created, you have SAP Advanced Financial Closing set up with SAP S/4HANA Cloud on SAP BTP. See the Next Steps section at SAP Advanced Financial Closing Administration Guide: Automated Setup.