URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/environments
Title: Environments | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology PlatformBasic Platform ConceptsEnvironments
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Environments

Environments constitute the actual platform-as-a-service offering of SAP BTP that allows for the development and administration of business applications. Environments are anchored in SAP BTP on subaccount level.

Each environment comes equipped with specific tools, technologies, and runtimes that you need to build applications. So a multi-environment subaccount is your single address to host a variety of applications and offer diverse development options. One advantage of using different environments in one subaccount is that you only need to manage users, authorizations, and entitlements once per subaccount, and thus grant more flexibility to your developers.
Note

The multi-environment subaccount functionality is not applicable for the Neo environment.

Environment Instances
To actually use an environment in a subaccount, you must enable it, which creates an instance of that environment. There are several ways to create environment instances:

In the SAP BTP cockpit, on the subaccount overview, choose Enable.

In the SAP BTP cockpit, under Service Marketplace. Here, you get more information, such as the available plans and links to further information.

Using the btp CLI command btp create accounts/environment-instance

Cloud Foundry Environment

The Cloud Foundry environment allows you to create polyglot cloud applications in Cloud Foundry. It contains the SAP BTP, Cloud Foundry runtime service, which is based on the open-source application platform managed by the Cloud Foundry Foundation.
ABAP Environment

The ABAP environment allows you to create extensions for ABAP-based products, such as SAP S/4HANA Cloud, and develop new cloud applications. You can transform existing ABAP-based custom code or extensions to the cloud.
Kyma Environment

SAP BTP, Kyma runtime provides a fully managed cloud-native Kubernetes application runtime based on the open-source project "Kyma". Based on modular building blocks, Kyma runtime includes all the necessary capabilities to simplify the development and to run enterprise-grade cloud-native applications.
Neo Environment

The Neo environment lets you develop HTML5, Java, and SAP HANA extended application services (SAP HANA XS) applications. You can also use the UI Development Toolkit for HTML5 (SAPUI5) to develop rich user interfaces for modern web-based business applications.
Related Information
Account Administration