=== BTP Documentation: hana-data ===

URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/d531b2dd49904927a0327c9479edd2b7.html
Title: Change the Default Database System | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP HANA Service for SAP BTP in SAP RegionsSAP HANA Service for SAP BTP in SAP RegionsAdministrationAdministering Database SchemasChange the Default Database System
SAP HANA Service for SAP BTP in SAP RegionsEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Change the Default Database System

Change the database property, which determines the database in the Neo environment on which an application runs.

Context

The default database system is used when schemas are created automatically. This occurs if an application is started but has not yet been assigned a schema.

You can change the default database system at any time, however, keep in mind the following:

A new application that has not been explicitly assigned a schema uses the most effective default database system when automatic schema creation is triggered, that is, when the application is started for the first time.

When deploying an application from the Eclipse IDE, an application is deployed and started in one step.

An application that is already using a default database system is not affected by any changes. Its schema remains associated with the default database system selected when the application was created.

Procedure
In the SAP BTP cockpit, navigate the list of subaccounts available to you. For more information, see Navigate in the Cockpit.
Choose the  (edit) icon on the tile for the subaccount you want to change.
Select the new default database system, and save your changes.
Related Information
Org Administration Using the Cockpit

---

URL: https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/trigger-registration-in-sap-s-4hana-cloud-tenant
Title: Trigger the Registration in the SAP S/4HANA Cloud Tenant | SAP Help Portal

HomeSAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP)SAP Business Technology Platform…Register an SAP S/4HANA Cloud System in a Global Account in SAP B…Trigger the Registration in the SAP S/4HANA Cloud Tenant
SAP Business Technology PlatformEnglish
Provide feedback on our search

Trigger the Registration in the SAP S/4HANA Cloud Tenant

Use this procedure to trigger the registration process for an SAP S/4HANA Cloud system that you want to pair with your global account in SAP BTP.

Prerequisites

You are an SAP S/4HANA Cloud tenant administrator.

Procedure
Log on to the SAP S/4HANA Cloud tenant, go to Home, Communication Management tab and then choose the Maintain Extensions on SAP BTP tile.
In the Maintain Extensions on SAP BTP screen, in the Extensions section, choose New.
In the Integration Token field, enter the content of the registration token from the SAP BTP cockpit.
Choose Save. A new entry in the table appears with status Enabling.
After the integration has finished successfully, you can refresh the table.

The status of the integration should have changed to Enabled.

---

